src/docs/development/packages-and-plugins/developing-packages.md, before:

---
title: Developing packages & plugins
short-title: Developing
description: How to write packages and plugins for Flutter.
---

{{site.note.alert}}
  The plugin API has been updated and now supports [federated plugins][] that
  enable separation of different platform implementations. You can also now
  indicate [which platforms a plugin][supported-platforms] supports, for example
  web and macOS.

  Eventually, the old plugin APIs will be deprecated. In the short term, you
  will see a warning when the framework detects that you are using an old-style
  plugin. For information on how to upgrade your plugin, see [Supporting the new
  Android plugins APIs][].  
{{site.note.end}}

## Package introduction

Packages enable the creation of modular code that can be shared easily. A
minimal package consists of the following:

**`pubspec.yaml`**
: A metadata file that declares the package name,
  version, author, and so on.

**`lib`**
: The `lib` directory contains the public code in
  the package, minimally a single `<package-name>.dart` file.

{{site.alert.note}}
  For a list of dos and don'ts when writing an effective plugin,
  see the Medium article by Mehmet Fidanboylu,
  [Writing a good plugin][].
{{site.alert.end}}

### Package types {#types}

Packages can contain more than one kind of content:

**Dart packages**
: General packages written in Dart,
  for example the [`path`][] package.
  Some of these might contain Flutter specific
  functionality and thus have a dependency on the
  Flutter framework, restricting their use to Flutter only,
  for example the [`fluro`][] package.

**Plugin packages**
: A specialized Dart package that contains an API written in
  Dart code combined with one or more platform-specific
  implementations.

  Plugin packages can be written for Android (using Kotlin or Java), iOS (using
  Swift or Objective-C), web, macOS, Windows, or Linux, or any combination
  thereof.

  A concrete example is the [`url_launcher`][] plugin package.
  To see how to use the `url_launcher` package, and how it
  was extended to implement support for web,
  see the Medium article by Harry Terkelsen,
  [How to Write a Flutter Web Plugin, Part 1][].

## Developing Dart packages {#dart}

The following instructions explain how to write a Flutter
package.

### Step 1: Create the package

To create a Flutter package, use the `--template=package` flag
with `flutter create`:

```terminal
$ flutter create --template=package hello
```

This creates a package project in the `hello`
folder with the following content:

**LICENSE**
: A (mostly) empty license text file.

**test/hello_test.dart**
: The [unit tests][] for the package.

**hello.iml**
: A configuration file used by the IntelliJ IDEs.

**.gitignore**
: A hidden file that tells Git which files or
  folders to ignore in a project.

**.metadata**
: A hidden file used by IDEs to track the properties
  of the Flutter project.

**pubspec.yaml**
: A yaml file containing metadata that specifies
  the package's dependencies. Used by the pub tool.

**README.md**
: A starter markdown file that briefly describes
  the package's purpose.

**lib/hello.dart**
: A starter app containing Dart code for the package.

**.idea/modules.xml**, **.idea/modules.xml**, **.idea/workspace.xml**
: A hidden folder containing configuration files
  for the IntelliJ IDEs.

**CHANGELOG.md**
: A (mostly) empty markdown file for tracking
  version changes to the package.

### Step 2: Implement the package

For pure Dart packages, simply add the functionality
inside the main `lib/<package name>.dart` file,
or in several files in the `lib` directory.

To test the package, add [unit tests][]
in a `test` directory.

For additional details on how to organize the
package contents,
see the [Dart library package][] documentation.

## Developing plugin packages {#plugin}

If you want to develop a package that calls into platform-specific APIs, you
need to develop a plugin package.

The API is connected to the platform-specific implementation(s) using a
[platform channel][].

### Federated plugins

Federated plugins are a a way of splitting support for different platforms into
separate packages. So, a federated plugin can use one package for iOS, another
for Android, another for web, and yet another for a car (as an example of an IoT
device). Among other benefits, this approach allows a domain expert to extend an
existing plugin to work for the platform they know best.

A federated plugin requires the following packages:

**app-facing package**
: The package that plugin users depend on to use the plugin.
  This package specifies the API used by the Flutter app.

**platform package(s)**
: One or more packages that contain the platform-specific
  implementation code. The app-facing package calls into
  these packages&mdash;they aren't included into an app,
  unless they contain platform-specific functionality
  accessible to the end user.

**platform interface package**
: The package that glues the app-facing packing
  to the platform package(s). This package declares an
  interface that any platform package must implement to
  support the app-facing package. Having a single package
  that defines this interface ensures that all platform
  packages implement the same functionality in a uniform way.
  
For more information on federated plugins, why they are useful, and how they are
implemented, see the Medium article by Harry Terkelsen, [How To Write a Flutter
Web Plugin, Part 2][].

### Specifying a plugin's supported platforms {#plugin-platforms}

Plugins can specify the platforms they support by adding keys to the `platforms`
map in the `pubspec.yaml` file. For example, the following pubspec file shows
the `flutter:` map for the `hello` plugin, which supports only iOS and Android:

```yaml
flutter:
  plugin:
    platforms:
      android:
        package: com.example.hello
        pluginClass: HelloPlugin
      ios:
        pluginClass: HelloPlugin

environment:
  sdk: ">=2.1.0 <3.0.0"
  # Flutter versions prior to 1.12 did not support the
  # flutter.plugin.platforms map.
  flutter: ">=1.12.0 <2.0.0"
```

When adding plugin implementations for more platforms, the `platforms` map
should be updated accordingly. For example, here's the map in the pubspec file
for the `hello` plugin, when updated to add support for macOS and web:

```yaml
flutter:
  plugin:
    platforms:
      android:
        package: com.example.hello
        pluginClass: HelloPlugin
      ios:
        pluginClass: HelloPlugin
      macos:
        pluginClass: HelloPlugin
      web:
        pluginClass: HelloPlugin
        fileName: hello_web.dart

environment:
  sdk: ">=2.1.0 <3.0.0"
  # Flutter versions prior to 1.12 did not support the
  # flutter.plugin.platforms map.
  flutter: ">=1.12.0 <2.0.0"
```

### Step 1: Create the package

To create a plugin package, use the `--template=plugin`
flag with `flutter create`.

Use the `--org` option to specify your organization,
using reverse domain name notation. This value is used
in various package and bundle identifiers in the
generated plugin code.

Use the `-a` option to specify the language for android or the `-i` option to
specify the language for ios. Please choose **one** of the following:

```terminal
$ flutter create --org com.example --template=plugin -a kotlin hello
```
```terminal
$ flutter create --org com.example --template=plugin -a java hello
```
```terminal
$ flutter create --org com.example --template=plugin -i objc hello
```
```terminal
$ flutter create --org com.example --template=plugin -i swift hello
```

This creates a plugin project in the `hello` folder
with the following specialized content:

**`lib/hello.dart`**
: The Dart API for the plugin.

**`android/src/main/java/com/example/hello/HelloPlugin.kt`**
: The Android platform-specific implementation of the plugin API
  in Kotlin.

**`ios/Classes/HelloPlugin.m`**
: The iOS-platform specific implementation of the plugin API
  in Objective-C.

**`example/`**
: A Flutter app that depends on the plugin,
  and illustrates how to use it.

By default, the plugin project uses Swift for iOS code and
Kotlin for Android code. If you prefer Objective-C or Java,
you can specify the iOS language using `-i` and the
Android language using `-a`. For example:

```terminal
$ flutter create --template=plugin -i objc hello
```
```terminal
$ flutter create --template=plugin -a java hello
```

### Step 2: Implement the package {#edit-plugin-package}

As a plugin package contains code for several platforms
written in several programming languages,
some specific steps are needed to ensure a smooth experience.

#### Step 2a: Define the package API (.dart)

The API of the plugin package is defined in Dart code.
Open the main `hello/` folder in your favorite [Flutter editor][].
Locate the file `lib/hello.dart`.

#### Step 2b: Add Android platform code (.kt/.java)

We recommend you edit the Android code using Android Studio.

Before editing the Android platform code in Android Studio,
first make sure that the code has been built at least once
(in other words, run the example app from your IDE/editor,
or in a terminal execute `cd hello/example; flutter build apk`).

Then use the following steps:

1. Launch Android Studio.
1. Select **Import project** in the
   **Welcome to Android Studio** dialog,
   or select **File > New > Import Project...** from the menu,
   and select the `hello/example/android/build.gradle` file.
1. In the **Gradle Sync** dialog, select **OK**.
1. In the **Android Gradle Plugin Update** dialog,
   select **Don't remind me again for this project**.

The Android platform code of your plugin is located in
`hello/java/com.example.hello/HelloPlugin`.

You can run the example app from Android Studio by
pressing the run (&#9654;) button.

#### Step 2c: Add iOS platform code (.swift/.h+.m)

We recommend you edit the iOS code using Xcode.

Before editing the iOS platform code in Xcode,
first make sure that the code has been built at least once
(in other words, run the example app from your IDE/editor,
or in a terminal execute
`cd hello/example; flutter build ios --no-codesign`).

Then use the following steps:

1. Launch Xcode.
1. Select **File > Open**, and select the
   `hello/example/ios/Runner.xcworkspace` file.

The iOS platform code for your plugin is located in
`Pods/Development Pods/hello/../../example/ios/.symlinks/plugins/hello/ios/Classes`
in the Project Navigator.

You can run the example app by pressing the run (&#9654;) button.

#### Step 2d: Connect the API and the platform code

Finally, you need to connect the API written in Dart code with
the platform-specific implementations.
This is done using a [platform channel][],
or through the interfaces defined in a platform
interface package.

### Testing your plugin

We encourage you test your plugin with automated tests, to ensure that
functionality does not regress as you make changes to your code. For more
information, see [Testing your plugin][], a section in [Supporting the new
Android plugins APIs][].

## Adding documentation

It is recommended practice to add the following documentation
to all packages:

1. A `README.md` file that introduces the package
1. A `CHANGELOG.md` file that documents changes in each version
1. A [`LICENSE`] file containing the terms under which the package
   is licensed
1. API documentation for all public APIs (see below for details)

### API documentation

When you publish a package,
API documentation is automatically generated and
published to pub.dev/documentation.
For example, see the docs for [`device_info`][].

If you wish to generate API documentation locally on
your development machine, use the following commands:

<ol markdown="1">
<li markdown="1">Change directory to the location of your package:

```terminal
cd ~/dev/mypackage
```
</li>

<li markdown="1">Tell the documentation tool where the
    Flutter SDK is located (change the following commands to reflect
    where you placed it):

```terminal
   export FLUTTER_ROOT=~/dev/flutter  # on macOS or Linux

   set FLUTTER_ROOT=~/dev/flutter     # on Windows
```
</li>

<li markdown="1">Run the `dartdoc` tool
    (included as part of the Flutter SDK), as follows:

```terminal
   $FLUTTER_ROOT/bin/cache/dart-sdk/bin/dartdoc   # on macOS or Linux

   %FLUTTER_ROOT%\bin\cache\dart-sdk\bin\dartdoc  # on Windows
```
</li>
</ol>

For tips on how to write API documentation, see
[Effective Dart Documentation][].

### Adding licenses to the LICENSE file

Individual licenses inside each LICENSE file should be separated by 80 hyphens
on their own on a line.

If a LICENSE file contains more than one component license, then each component
license must start with the names of the packages to which the component license
applies, with each package name on its own line, and the list of package names
separated from the actual license text by a blank line. (The packages need not
match the names of the pub package. For example, a package might itself contain
code from multiple third-party sources, and might need to include a license for
each one.)

The following example shows a well-organized license file:

```none
package_1

<some license text>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
package_2

<some license text>
```

Here is another example of a well-organized license file:

```none
package_1

<some license text>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
package_1
package_2

<some license text>
```

Here is an example of a poorly-organized license file:

```none
<some license text>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<some license text>
```

Another example of a poorly-organized license file:

```
package_1

<some license text>
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<some license text>
```

## Publishing your package {#publish}

{{site.alert.tip}}
  Have you noticed that some of the packages and plugins
  on pub.dev are designated as [Flutter Favorites][]?
  These are the packages published by verified developers
  and are identified as the packages and plugins you
  should first consider using when writing your app.
  To learn more,
  see the [Flutter Favorites program][].
{{site.alert.end}}

Once you have implemented a package, you can publish it on
[pub.dev][], so that other developers can easily use it.

Prior to publishing, make sure to review the `pubspec.yaml`,
`README.md`, and `CHANGELOG.md` files to make sure their
content is complete and correct. Also, to improve the
quality and usability of your package (and to make it
more likely to achieve the status of a Flutter Favorite),
consider including the following items:

* Diverse code usage examples
* Screenshots, animated gifs, or videos
* A link to the corresponding code repository

Next, run the publish command in `dry-run` mode
to see if everything passes analysis:

```terminal
$ flutter pub publish --dry-run
```

The next step is publishing to pub.dev,
but be sure that you are ready because
[publishing is forever][]:

```terminal
$ flutter pub publish
```

For more details on publishing, see the
[publishing docs][] on dart.dev.

## Handling package interdependencies {#dependencies}

If you are developing a package `hello` that depends on
the Dart API exposed by another package, you need to add
that package to the `dependencies` section of your
`pubspec.yaml` file. The code below makes the Dart API
of the `url_launcher` plugin available to `hello`:

```yaml
dependencies:
  url_launcher: ^5.0.0
```

You can now `import 'package:url_launcher/url_launcher.dart'`
and `launch(someUrl)` in the Dart code of `hello`.

This is no different from how you include packages in
Flutter apps or any other Dart project.

But if `hello` happens to be a _plugin_ package
whose platform-specific code needs access
to the platform-specific APIs exposed by `url_launcher`,
you also need to add suitable dependency declarations
to your platform-specific build files, as shown below.

### Android

The following example sets a dependency for
`url_launcher` in `hello/android/build.gradle`:

```groovy
android {
    // lines skipped
    dependencies {
        compileOnly rootProject.findProject(":url_launcher")
    }
}
```

You can now `import io.flutter.plugins.urllauncher.UrlLauncherPlugin`
and access the `UrlLauncherPlugin`
class in the source code at `hello/android/src`.

### iOS

The following example sets a dependency for
`url_launcher` in `hello/ios/hello.podspec`:

```ruby
Pod::Spec.new do |s|
  # lines skipped
  s.dependency 'url_launcher'
```
You can now `#import "UrlLauncherPlugin.h"` and
access the `UrlLauncherPlugin` class in the source code
at `hello/ios/Classes`.

### Web

All web dependencies are handled by the `pubspec.yaml`
file like any other Dart package.

{% comment %}
<!-- Remove until we have better text. -->
### MacOS

PENDING
{% endcomment %}

[Dart library package]: {{site.dart-site}}/guides/libraries/create-library-packages
[`device_info`]: {{site.pub-api}}/device_info/latest
[Effective Dart Documentation]: {{site.dart-site}}/guides/language/effective-dart/documentation
[federated plugins]: #federated-plugins
[`fluro`]: {{site.pub}}/packages/fluro
[Flutter editor]: /docs/get-started/editor
[Flutter Favorites]: {{site.pub}}/flutter/favorites
[Flutter Favorites program]: /docs/development/packages-and-plugins/favorites
[How to Write a Flutter Web Plugin, Part 1]: {{site.medium}}/flutter/how-to-write-a-flutter-web-plugin-5e26c689ea1
[How To Write a Flutter Web Plugin, Part 2]: {{site.medium}}/flutter/how-to-write-a-flutter-web-plugin-part-2-afdddb69ece6
[issue #33302]: https://github.com/flutter/flutter/issues/33302
[`LICENSE`]: #adding-licenses-to-the-license-file
[`path`]: {{site.pub}}/packages/path
[platform channel]: /docs/development/platform-integration/platform-channels
[pub.dev]: {{site.pub}}
[publishing docs]: {{site.dart-site}}/tools/pub/publishing
[publishing is forever]: {{site.dart-site}}/tools/pub/publishing#publishing-is-forever
[Supporting the new Android plugins APIs]: /docs/development/packages-and-plugins/plugin-api-migration
[supported-platforms]: #plugin-platforms
[test your plugin]: #testing-your-plugin
[Testing your plugin]: /docs/development/packages-and-plugins/plugin-api-migration#testing-your-plugin
[unit tests]: /docs/testing#unit-tests
[`url_launcher`]: {{site.pub}}/packages/url_launcher
[Writing a good plugin]: {{site.flutter-medium}}/writing-a-good-flutter-plugin-1a561b986c9c

Commit message:

Update the `flutter create -t plugin` document to reflect changes related to `--platforms` (#4344)
* Update developing-packages.md

Update the document to reflect changes in https://github.com/flutter/flutter/pull/59507

* Update developing-packages.md

Review

* Update developing-packages.md

src/docs/development/packages-and-plugins/developing-packages.md, after:

---
title: Developing packages & plugins
short-title: Developing
description: How to write packages and plugins for Flutter.
---

{{site.note.alert}}
  The plugin API has been updated and now supports [federated plugins][] that
  enable separation of different platform implementations. You can also now
  indicate [which platforms a plugin][supported-platforms] supports, for example
  web and macOS.

  Eventually, the old plugin APIs will be deprecated. In the short term, you
  will see a warning when the framework detects that you are using an old-style
  plugin. For information on how to upgrade your plugin, see [Supporting the new
  Android plugins APIs][].  
{{site.note.end}}

## Package introduction

Packages enable the creation of modular code that can be shared easily. A
minimal package consists of the following:

**`pubspec.yaml`**
: A metadata file that declares the package name,
  version, author, and so on.

**`lib`**
: The `lib` directory contains the public code in
  the package, minimally a single `<package-name>.dart` file.

{{site.alert.note}}
  For a list of dos and don'ts when writing an effective plugin,
  see the Medium article by Mehmet Fidanboylu,
  [Writing a good plugin][].
{{site.alert.end}}

### Package types {#types}

Packages can contain more than one kind of content:

**Dart packages**
: General packages written in Dart,
  for example the [`path`][] package.
  Some of these might contain Flutter specific
  functionality and thus have a dependency on the
  Flutter framework, restricting their use to Flutter only,
  for example the [`fluro`][] package.

**Plugin packages**
: A specialized Dart package that contains an API written in
  Dart code combined with one or more platform-specific
  implementations.

  Plugin packages can be written for Android (using Kotlin or Java), iOS (using
  Swift or Objective-C), web, macOS, Windows, or Linux, or any combination
  thereof.

  A concrete example is the [`url_launcher`][] plugin package.
  To see how to use the `url_launcher` package, and how it
  was extended to implement support for web,
  see the Medium article by Harry Terkelsen,
  [How to Write a Flutter Web Plugin, Part 1][].

## Developing Dart packages {#dart}

The following instructions explain how to write a Flutter
package.

### Step 1: Create the package

To create a Flutter package, use the `--template=package` flag
with `flutter create`:

```terminal
$ flutter create --template=package hello
```

This creates a package project in the `hello`
folder with the following content:

**LICENSE**
: A (mostly) empty license text file.

**test/hello_test.dart**
: The [unit tests][] for the package.

**hello.iml**
: A configuration file used by the IntelliJ IDEs.

**.gitignore**
: A hidden file that tells Git which files or
  folders to ignore in a project.

**.metadata**
: A hidden file used by IDEs to track the properties
  of the Flutter project.

**pubspec.yaml**
: A yaml file containing metadata that specifies
  the package's dependencies. Used by the pub tool.

**README.md**
: A starter markdown file that briefly describes
  the package's purpose.

**lib/hello.dart**
: A starter app containing Dart code for the package.

**.idea/modules.xml**, **.idea/modules.xml**, **.idea/workspace.xml**
: A hidden folder containing configuration files
  for the IntelliJ IDEs.

**CHANGELOG.md**
: A (mostly) empty markdown file for tracking
  version changes to the package.

### Step 2: Implement the package

For pure Dart packages, simply add the functionality
inside the main `lib/<package name>.dart` file,
or in several files in the `lib` directory.

To test the package, add [unit tests][]
in a `test` directory.

For additional details on how to organize the
package contents,
see the [Dart library package][] documentation.

## Developing plugin packages {#plugin}

If you want to develop a package that calls into platform-specific APIs, you
need to develop a plugin package.

The API is connected to the platform-specific implementation(s) using a
[platform channel][].

### Federated plugins

Federated plugins are a a way of splitting support for different platforms into
separate packages. So, a federated plugin can use one package for iOS, another
for Android, another for web, and yet another for a car (as an example of an IoT
device). Among other benefits, this approach allows a domain expert to extend an
existing plugin to work for the platform they know best.

A federated plugin requires the following packages:

**app-facing package**
: The package that plugin users depend on to use the plugin.
  This package specifies the API used by the Flutter app.

**platform package(s)**
: One or more packages that contain the platform-specific
  implementation code. The app-facing package calls into
  these packages&mdash;they aren't included into an app,
  unless they contain platform-specific functionality
  accessible to the end user.

**platform interface package**
: The package that glues the app-facing packing
  to the platform package(s). This package declares an
  interface that any platform package must implement to
  support the app-facing package. Having a single package
  that defines this interface ensures that all platform
  packages implement the same functionality in a uniform way.
  
For more information on federated plugins, why they are useful, and how they are
implemented, see the Medium article by Harry Terkelsen, [How To Write a Flutter
Web Plugin, Part 2][].

### Specifying a plugin's supported platforms {#plugin-platforms}

Plugins can specify the platforms they support by adding keys to the `platforms`
map in the `pubspec.yaml` file. For example, the following pubspec file shows
the `flutter:` map for the `hello` plugin, which supports only iOS and Android:

```yaml
flutter:
  plugin:
    platforms:
      android:
        package: com.example.hello
        pluginClass: HelloPlugin
      ios:
        pluginClass: HelloPlugin

environment:
  sdk: ">=2.1.0 <3.0.0"
  # Flutter versions prior to 1.12 did not support the
  # flutter.plugin.platforms map.
  flutter: ">=1.12.0 <2.0.0"
```

When adding plugin implementations for more platforms, the `platforms` map
should be updated accordingly. For example, here's the map in the pubspec file
for the `hello` plugin, when updated to add support for macOS and web:

```yaml
flutter:
  plugin:
    platforms:
      android:
        package: com.example.hello
        pluginClass: HelloPlugin
      ios:
        pluginClass: HelloPlugin
      macos:
        pluginClass: HelloPlugin
      web:
        pluginClass: HelloPlugin
        fileName: hello_web.dart

environment:
  sdk: ">=2.1.0 <3.0.0"
  # Flutter versions prior to 1.12 did not support the
  # flutter.plugin.platforms map.
  flutter: ">=1.12.0 <2.0.0"
```

### Step 1: Create the package

To create a plugin package, use the `--template=plugin`
flag with `flutter create`.

As of Flutter 1.20.0, Use the `--platforms=` option followed by a comma separated list to 
specify the platforms that the plugin supports. Available platforms are: `android`, `ios`, `web`, `linux`, `macos`, and `windows`.
If no platforms are specified, the resulting project doesn't support any platforms.

Use the `--org` option to specify your organization,
using reverse domain name notation. This value is used
in various package and bundle identifiers in the
generated plugin code.

Use the `-a` option to specify the language for android or the `-i` option to
specify the language for ios. Please choose **one** of the following:

```terminal
$ flutter create --org com.example --template=plugin --platforms=android,ios -a kotlin hello
```
```terminal
$ flutter create --org com.example --template=plugin --platforms=android,ios -a java hello
```
```terminal
$ flutter create --org com.example --template=plugin --platforms=android,ios -i objc hello
```
```terminal
$ flutter create --org com.example --template=plugin --platforms=android,ios -i swift hello
```

This creates a plugin project in the `hello` folder
with the following specialized content:

**`lib/hello.dart`**
: The Dart API for the plugin.

**`android/src/main/java/com/example/hello/HelloPlugin.kt`**
: The Android platform-specific implementation of the plugin API
  in Kotlin.

**`ios/Classes/HelloPlugin.m`**
: The iOS-platform specific implementation of the plugin API
  in Objective-C.

**`example/`**
: A Flutter app that depends on the plugin,
  and illustrates how to use it.

By default, the plugin project uses Swift for iOS code and
Kotlin for Android code. If you prefer Objective-C or Java,
you can specify the iOS language using `-i` and the
Android language using `-a`. For example:

```terminal
$ flutter create --template=plugin --platforms=android,ios -i objc hello
```
```terminal
$ flutter create --template=plugin --platforms=android,ios -a java hello
```

### Step 2: Implement the package {#edit-plugin-package}

As a plugin package contains code for several platforms
written in several programming languages,
some specific steps are needed to ensure a smooth experience.

#### Step 2a: Define the package API (.dart)

The API of the plugin package is defined in Dart code.
Open the main `hello/` folder in your favorite [Flutter editor][].
Locate the file `lib/hello.dart`.

#### Step 2b: Add Android platform code (.kt/.java)

We recommend you edit the Android code using Android Studio.

Before editing the Android platform code in Android Studio,
first make sure that the code has been built at least once
(in other words, run the example app from your IDE/editor,
or in a terminal execute `cd hello/example; flutter build apk`).

Then use the following steps:

1. Launch Android Studio.
1. Select **Import project** in the
   **Welcome to Android Studio** dialog,
   or select **File > New > Import Project...** from the menu,
   and select the `hello/example/android/build.gradle` file.
1. In the **Gradle Sync** dialog, select **OK**.
1. In the **Android Gradle Plugin Update** dialog,
   select **Don't remind me again for this project**.

The Android platform code of your plugin is located in
`hello/java/com.example.hello/HelloPlugin`.

You can run the example app from Android Studio by
pressing the run (&#9654;) button.

#### Step 2c: Add iOS platform code (.swift/.h+.m)

We recommend you edit the iOS code using Xcode.

Before editing the iOS platform code in Xcode,
first make sure that the code has been built at least once
(in other words, run the example app from your IDE/editor,
or in a terminal execute
`cd hello/example; flutter build ios --no-codesign`).

Then use the following steps:

1. Launch Xcode.
1. Select **File > Open**, and select the
   `hello/example/ios/Runner.xcworkspace` file.

The iOS platform code for your plugin is located in
`Pods/Development Pods/hello/../../example/ios/.symlinks/plugins/hello/ios/Classes`
in the Project Navigator.

You can run the example app by pressing the run (&#9654;) button.

#### Step 2d: Connect the API and the platform code

Finally, you need to connect the API written in Dart code with
the platform-specific implementations.
This is done using a [platform channel][],
or through the interfaces defined in a platform
interface package.

### Add support for platforms in an existing plugin project

To add support for specific platforms to an existing plugin project, run `flutter create` with
the `--template=plugin` flag again in the project directory.
For example, to add web support in an existing plugin, run:

```terminal
$ flutter create --template=plugin --platforms=web .
```

If this command displays a message about updating the `pubspec.yaml` file,
follow the provided instructions.

{{site.alert.important}}
  The `--platforms ` flag is available in Flutter 1.20.0.
{{site.alert.end}}

### Testing your plugin

We encourage you test your plugin with automated tests, to ensure that
functionality does not regress as you make changes to your code. For more
information, see [Testing your plugin][], a section in [Supporting the new
Android plugins APIs][].

## Adding documentation

It is recommended practice to add the following documentation
to all packages:

1. A `README.md` file that introduces the package
1. A `CHANGELOG.md` file that documents changes in each version
1. A [`LICENSE`] file containing the terms under which the package
   is licensed
1. API documentation for all public APIs (see below for details)

### API documentation

When you publish a package,
API documentation is automatically generated and
published to pub.dev/documentation.
For example, see the docs for [`device_info`][].

If you wish to generate API documentation locally on
your development machine, use the following commands:

<ol markdown="1">
<li markdown="1">Change directory to the location of your package:

```terminal
cd ~/dev/mypackage
```
</li>

<li markdown="1">Tell the documentation tool where the
    Flutter SDK is located (change the following commands to reflect
    where you placed it):

```terminal
   export FLUTTER_ROOT=~/dev/flutter  # on macOS or Linux

   set FLUTTER_ROOT=~/dev/flutter     # on Windows
```
</li>

<li markdown="1">Run the `dartdoc` tool
    (included as part of the Flutter SDK), as follows:

```terminal
   $FLUTTER_ROOT/bin/cache/dart-sdk/bin/dartdoc   # on macOS or Linux

   %FLUTTER_ROOT%\bin\cache\dart-sdk\bin\dartdoc  # on Windows
```
</li>
</ol>

For tips on how to write API documentation, see
[Effective Dart Documentation][].

### Adding licenses to the LICENSE file

Individual licenses inside each LICENSE file should be separated by 80 hyphens
on their own on a line.

If a LICENSE file contains more than one component license, then each component
license must start with the names of the packages to which the component license
applies, with each package name on its own line, and the list of package names
separated from the actual license text by a blank line. (The packages need not
match the names of the pub package. For example, a package might itself contain
code from multiple third-party sources, and might need to include a license for
each one.)

The following example shows a well-organized license file:

```none
package_1

<some license text>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
package_2

<some license text>
```

Here is another example of a well-organized license file:

```none
package_1

<some license text>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
package_1
package_2

<some license text>
```

Here is an example of a poorly-organized license file:

```none
<some license text>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<some license text>
```

Another example of a poorly-organized license file:

```
package_1

<some license text>
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<some license text>
```

## Publishing your package {#publish}

{{site.alert.tip}}
  Have you noticed that some of the packages and plugins
  on pub.dev are designated as [Flutter Favorites][]?
  These are the packages published by verified developers
  and are identified as the packages and plugins you
  should first consider using when writing your app.
  To learn more,
  see the [Flutter Favorites program][].
{{site.alert.end}}

Once you have implemented a package, you can publish it on
[pub.dev][], so that other developers can easily use it.

Prior to publishing, make sure to review the `pubspec.yaml`,
`README.md`, and `CHANGELOG.md` files to make sure their
content is complete and correct. Also, to improve the
quality and usability of your package (and to make it
more likely to achieve the status of a Flutter Favorite),
consider including the following items:

* Diverse code usage examples
* Screenshots, animated gifs, or videos
* A link to the corresponding code repository

Next, run the publish command in `dry-run` mode
to see if everything passes analysis:

```terminal
$ flutter pub publish --dry-run
```

The next step is publishing to pub.dev,
but be sure that you are ready because
[publishing is forever][]:

```terminal
$ flutter pub publish
```

For more details on publishing, see the
[publishing docs][] on dart.dev.

## Handling package interdependencies {#dependencies}

If you are developing a package `hello` that depends on
the Dart API exposed by another package, you need to add
that package to the `dependencies` section of your
`pubspec.yaml` file. The code below makes the Dart API
of the `url_launcher` plugin available to `hello`:

```yaml
dependencies:
  url_launcher: ^5.0.0
```

You can now `import 'package:url_launcher/url_launcher.dart'`
and `launch(someUrl)` in the Dart code of `hello`.

This is no different from how you include packages in
Flutter apps or any other Dart project.

But if `hello` happens to be a _plugin_ package
whose platform-specific code needs access
to the platform-specific APIs exposed by `url_launcher`,
you also need to add suitable dependency declarations
to your platform-specific build files, as shown below.

### Android

The following example sets a dependency for
`url_launcher` in `hello/android/build.gradle`:

```groovy
android {
    // lines skipped
    dependencies {
        compileOnly rootProject.findProject(":url_launcher")
    }
}
```

You can now `import io.flutter.plugins.urllauncher.UrlLauncherPlugin`
and access the `UrlLauncherPlugin`
class in the source code at `hello/android/src`.

### iOS

The following example sets a dependency for
`url_launcher` in `hello/ios/hello.podspec`:

```ruby
Pod::Spec.new do |s|
  # lines skipped
  s.dependency 'url_launcher'
```
You can now `#import "UrlLauncherPlugin.h"` and
access the `UrlLauncherPlugin` class in the source code
at `hello/ios/Classes`.

### Web

All web dependencies are handled by the `pubspec.yaml`
file like any other Dart package.

{% comment %}
<!-- Remove until we have better text. -->
### MacOS

PENDING
{% endcomment %}

[Dart library package]: {{site.dart-site}}/guides/libraries/create-library-packages
[`device_info`]: {{site.pub-api}}/device_info/latest
[Effective Dart Documentation]: {{site.dart-site}}/guides/language/effective-dart/documentation
[federated plugins]: #federated-plugins
[`fluro`]: {{site.pub}}/packages/fluro
[Flutter editor]: /docs/get-started/editor
[Flutter Favorites]: {{site.pub}}/flutter/favorites
[Flutter Favorites program]: /docs/development/packages-and-plugins/favorites
[How to Write a Flutter Web Plugin, Part 1]: {{site.medium}}/flutter/how-to-write-a-flutter-web-plugin-5e26c689ea1
[How To Write a Flutter Web Plugin, Part 2]: {{site.medium}}/flutter/how-to-write-a-flutter-web-plugin-part-2-afdddb69ece6
[issue #33302]: https://github.com/flutter/flutter/issues/33302
[`LICENSE`]: #adding-licenses-to-the-license-file
[`path`]: {{site.pub}}/packages/path
[platform channel]: /docs/development/platform-integration/platform-channels
[pub.dev]: {{site.pub}}
[publishing docs]: {{site.dart-site}}/tools/pub/publishing
[publishing is forever]: {{site.dart-site}}/tools/pub/publishing#publishing-is-forever
[Supporting the new Android plugins APIs]: /docs/development/packages-and-plugins/plugin-api-migration
[supported-platforms]: #plugin-platforms
[test your plugin]: #testing-your-plugin
[Testing your plugin]: /docs/development/packages-and-plugins/plugin-api-migration#testing-your-plugin
[unit tests]: /docs/testing#unit-tests
[`url_launcher`]: {{site.pub}}/packages/url_launcher
[Writing a good plugin]: {{site.flutter-medium}}/writing-a-good-flutter-plugin-1a561b986c9c
