src/docs/codelabs/index.md, before:

---
title: Codelabs
description: "Codelabs help you quickly get started programming Flutter."
---

The Flutter codelabs provide a guided,
hands-on coding experience. Some codelabs
run in DartPad&mdash;no downloads required!

## Good for beginners

If you're new to Flutter, we recommend starting with
one of these codelabs:

* [Write your first Flutter app, part 1][]<br>
  Create a simple mobile app that generates proposed names
  for a startup company. In part one, you'll use a package
  that returns pairs of words at random and inserts them into
  an infinite scrolling list. You can also find this
  [codelab on flutter.dev][].

* [Write your first Flutter app, part 2][]<br>
  Create a simple mobile app that generates proposed names
  for a startup company. In part two, you'll extend the
  example from part 1 to allow the user to select favorite
  word pairs, and add a second "Saved Favorites"
  page where users can view the selected names.
  Finally, you'll change the app's theme color.

* [Write your first Flutter app on the web][]<br>
  Implement a simple web app in DartPad (no downloads
  required!) that displays a sign-in screen
  containing three text fields. As the user fills out the
  fields, a progress bar animates along the top of the
  sign-in area. This codelab is written specifically for
  the web, but if you have downloaded and configured
  Android and iOS tooling, the completed app
  works on Android and iOS devices, as well.

* [Building beautiful UIs with Flutter][]<br>
  A deeper "first dive" than "Write your first Flutter app."
  Create a chat app that includes a simple animation,
  and customizes the UI for iOS and Android. As part of
  this codelab, learn how to use keyboard shortcuts in
  Android Studio.

[Building beautiful UIs with Flutter]: {{site.codelabs}}/codelabs/flutter
[codelab on flutter.dev]: /docs/get-started/codelab
[Write your First Flutter app, part 1]: {{site.codelabs}}/codelabs/first-flutter-app-pt1
[Write your First Flutter app, part 2]: {{site.codelabs}}/codelabs/first-flutter-app-pt2
[Write your first Flutter app on the web]: /docs/get-started/codelab-web

## Designing a Flutter UI

Learn about Material Design and basic Flutter concepts,
like layout and animations:

* [Basic Flutter layout concepts][]<br>
  Use DartPad in a browser (no downloads required!)
  to learn the basics of creating a Flutter layout.

* [How to debug layout issues with the Flutter Inspector][]<br>
  Not an official codelab, but step-by-step instructions on
  how to debug common layout problems using the Flutter 
  Inspector and Layout Explorer.

* [Implicit animations][]<br>
  Use DartPad (no downloads required!) to learn how to use
  implicit animations to add motion and create
  visual effects for the widgets in your UI.

* [Building Beautiful Transitions with Material Motion for Flutter][]<br>
  Learn how to use the Material [animations][] package to
  add pre-built transitions to a Material app called Reply.

* [MDC 101 Flutter: Material Components (MDC) Basics][]<br>
  Learn the basics of using Material Components by building
  a simple app with core components.  The four MDC codelabs
  guide you through building an e-commerce app called Shrine.
  You'll start by building a login page using several of MDC
  Flutter's components.

* [MDC 102 Flutter: Material Structure and Layout][]<br>
  Learn how to use Material for structure and layout in Flutter.
  Continue building the e-commerce app, introduced in MDC-101,
  by adding navigation, structure, and data.

* [MDC 103 Flutter: Material Theming with Color, Shape, Elevation, and Type][]<br>
  Discover how Material Components for Flutter make it
  easy to differentiate your product, and express your
  brand through design. Continue building your e-commerce
  app by adding a home screen that displays products.

* [MDC 104 Flutter: Material Advanced Components][]<br>
  Improve your design and learn to use our advanced
  component backdrop menu. Finish your e-commerce app
  by adding a backdrop with a menu that filters
  products by the selected category.

[animations]: {{site.pub}}/packages/animations
[Basic Flutter layout concepts]: /docs/codelabs/layout-basics
[Building Beautiful Transitions with Material Motion for Flutter]: {{site.codelabs}}/codelabs/material-motion-flutter
[How to debug layout issues with the Flutter Inspector]: {{site.medium}}/flutter/how-to-debug-layout-issues-with-the-flutter-inspector-87460a7b9db
[Implicit animations]: /docs/codelabs/implicit-animations
[MDC 101 Flutter: Material Components (MDC) Basics]: {{site.codelabs}}/codelabs/mdc-101-flutter
[MDC 102 Flutter: Material Structure and Layout]: {{site.codelabs}}/codelabs/mdc-102-flutter
[MDC 103 Flutter: Material Theming with Color, Shape, Elevation, and Type]: {{site.codelabs}}/codelabs/mdc-103-flutter
[MDC 104 Flutter: Material Advanced Components]: {{site.codelabs}}/codelabs/mdc-104-flutter

## Using Flutter with...

Learn how to use Flutter with other technologies.

* [Adding Google Maps to a Flutter app][]<br>
  Display a Google map in an app, retrieve data from a
  web service, and display the data as markers on the map.

* [Build a photo sharing app with Google Photos and Flutter][]<br>
  Build a field trip app that allows you and other
  members of the trip to share photos.

* [Adding AdMob Ads to a Flutter app][]<br>
  Learn how to add an AdMob banner, an interstitial ad,
  and a rewarded ad to an app called Awesome Drawing Quiz,
  a game that lets players guess the name of the drawing.

* [Firebase for Flutter][]<br>
  Connect a Flutter app to a Firebase database,
  and use a transaction to update shared information.

* [Multi-platform Firestore Flutter][]<br>
  Build a multi-platform restaurant recommendation app
  powered by Flutter and Cloud Firestore.
  The finished app runs on Android, iOS, and web,
  from a single Dart codebase.

[Adding AdMob Ads to a Flutter app]: {{site.codelabs}}/codelabs/admob-ads-in-flutter/
[Adding Google Maps to a Flutter app]: {{site.codelabs}}/codelabs/google-maps-in-flutter
[Build a photo sharing app with Google Photos and Flutter]: {{site.codelabs}}/codelabs/google-photos-sharing
[Firebase for Flutter]: {{site.codelabs}}/codelabs/flutter-firebase
[Multi-platform Firestore Flutter]: {{site.codelabs}}/codelabs/friendlyeats-flutter/

## Testing

Learn how to test your Flutter application.

* [How to test a Flutter app][]<br>
  Start with a simple app that manages state with the Provider package.
  Unit test the provider package. Write widget tests for two of the
  widgets. Use Flutter Driver to create an integration test.

[How to test a Flutter app]: {{site.codelabs}}/codelabs/flutter-app-testing/#0

## Writing platform-specific code

Learn how to write code that's targeted for specific platforms,
like iOS, Android, the web, and the desktop.

* [Building a Cupertino app with Flutter][]<br>
  Build a version of the Shrine shopping app
  (used in the Material Design codelabs) using the
  Cupertino package to create an iOS style look and feel.
  Create multiple tabs and navigate between them.
  Use the [provider][] package to manage state between screens.

* [How to write a Flutter plugin][]<br>
  Learn how to write a plugin by creating a music plugin
  for iOS and Android that processes audio on the host platform.
  Then make an example app that uses your plugin to make a music keyboard.

* [Using a plugin with a Flutter web app][]<br>
  Finish an app that reports the number of stars on a GitHub repository.
  use Dart DevTools to do some simple debugging, and
  Host your app on Firebase and, finally, use a Flutter plugin to
  launch the app and open the hosted privacy policy.

* [Write a Flutter desktop application][]<br>
  Build a Flutter desktop app that accesses GitHub APIs to retrieve your
  repositories, assigned issues, and pull requests. As part of this task,
  create and use plugins to interact with native APIs and desktop applications,
  and use code generation to build type-safe client libraries for GitHub's APIs.

[Building a Cupertino app with Flutter]: {{site.codelabs}}/codelabs/flutter-cupertino
[How to write a Flutter plugin]: {{site.codelabs}}/codelabs/write-flutter-plugin/
[provider]: {{site.pub}}/packages/provider
[Using a plugin with a Flutter web app]: {{site.codelabs}}/codelabs/web-url-launcher/
[Write a Flutter desktop application]: {{site.codelabs}}/codelabs/flutter-github-graphql-client/

## Other resources

For Dart-specific codelabs, see the
[codelabs][] page on the [Dart site][].

We also recommend the following online class:

* [The Complete Flutter Development Bootcamp Using Dart][]

{{site.alert.note}}
  If you have trouble viewing any of the codelabs
  on `codelabs.google.developer.com`, try 
  [this mirror of the Flutter codelabs][].
{{site.alert.end}}

[codelabs]: {{site.dart-site}}/codelabs
[Dart site]: {{site.dart-site}}
[The Complete Flutter Development Bootcamp Using Dart]: https://www.appbrewery.co/p/flutter-development-bootcamp-with-dart
[this mirror of the Flutter codelabs]: https://codelabs.flutter-io.cn/

Commit message:

Add Get to know Firebase for Flutter codelab (#4923)

src/docs/codelabs/index.md, after:

---
title: Codelabs
description: "Codelabs help you quickly get started programming Flutter."
---

The Flutter codelabs provide a guided,
hands-on coding experience. Some codelabs
run in DartPad&mdash;no downloads required!

## Good for beginners

If you're new to Flutter, we recommend starting with
one of these codelabs:

* [Write your first Flutter app, part 1][]<br>
  Create a simple mobile app that generates proposed names
  for a startup company. In part one, you'll use a package
  that returns pairs of words at random and inserts them into
  an infinite scrolling list. You can also find this
  [codelab on flutter.dev][].

* [Write your first Flutter app, part 2][]<br>
  Create a simple mobile app that generates proposed names
  for a startup company. In part two, you'll extend the
  example from part 1 to allow the user to select favorite
  word pairs, and add a second "Saved Favorites"
  page where users can view the selected names.
  Finally, you'll change the app's theme color.

* [Write your first Flutter app on the web][]<br>
  Implement a simple web app in DartPad (no downloads
  required!) that displays a sign-in screen
  containing three text fields. As the user fills out the
  fields, a progress bar animates along the top of the
  sign-in area. This codelab is written specifically for
  the web, but if you have downloaded and configured
  Android and iOS tooling, the completed app
  works on Android and iOS devices, as well.

* [Building beautiful UIs with Flutter][]<br>
  A deeper "first dive" than "Write your first Flutter app."
  Create a chat app that includes a simple animation,
  and customizes the UI for iOS and Android. As part of
  this codelab, learn how to use keyboard shortcuts in
  Android Studio.

[Building beautiful UIs with Flutter]: {{site.codelabs}}/codelabs/flutter
[codelab on flutter.dev]: /docs/get-started/codelab
[Write your First Flutter app, part 1]: {{site.codelabs}}/codelabs/first-flutter-app-pt1
[Write your First Flutter app, part 2]: {{site.codelabs}}/codelabs/first-flutter-app-pt2
[Write your first Flutter app on the web]: /docs/get-started/codelab-web

## Designing a Flutter UI

Learn about Material Design and basic Flutter concepts,
like layout and animations:

* [Basic Flutter layout concepts][]<br>
  Use DartPad in a browser (no downloads required!)
  to learn the basics of creating a Flutter layout.

* [How to debug layout issues with the Flutter Inspector][]<br>
  Not an official codelab, but step-by-step instructions on
  how to debug common layout problems using the Flutter 
  Inspector and Layout Explorer.

* [Implicit animations][]<br>
  Use DartPad (no downloads required!) to learn how to use
  implicit animations to add motion and create
  visual effects for the widgets in your UI.

* [Building Beautiful Transitions with Material Motion for Flutter][]<br>
  Learn how to use the Material [animations][] package to
  add pre-built transitions to a Material app called Reply.

* [MDC 101 Flutter: Material Components (MDC) Basics][]<br>
  Learn the basics of using Material Components by building
  a simple app with core components.  The four MDC codelabs
  guide you through building an e-commerce app called Shrine.
  You'll start by building a login page using several of MDC
  Flutter's components.

* [MDC 102 Flutter: Material Structure and Layout][]<br>
  Learn how to use Material for structure and layout in Flutter.
  Continue building the e-commerce app, introduced in MDC-101,
  by adding navigation, structure, and data.

* [MDC 103 Flutter: Material Theming with Color, Shape, Elevation, and Type][]<br>
  Discover how Material Components for Flutter make it
  easy to differentiate your product, and express your
  brand through design. Continue building your e-commerce
  app by adding a home screen that displays products.

* [MDC 104 Flutter: Material Advanced Components][]<br>
  Improve your design and learn to use our advanced
  component backdrop menu. Finish your e-commerce app
  by adding a backdrop with a menu that filters
  products by the selected category.

[animations]: {{site.pub}}/packages/animations
[Basic Flutter layout concepts]: /docs/codelabs/layout-basics
[Building Beautiful Transitions with Material Motion for Flutter]: {{site.codelabs}}/codelabs/material-motion-flutter
[How to debug layout issues with the Flutter Inspector]: {{site.medium}}/flutter/how-to-debug-layout-issues-with-the-flutter-inspector-87460a7b9db
[Implicit animations]: /docs/codelabs/implicit-animations
[MDC 101 Flutter: Material Components (MDC) Basics]: {{site.codelabs}}/codelabs/mdc-101-flutter
[MDC 102 Flutter: Material Structure and Layout]: {{site.codelabs}}/codelabs/mdc-102-flutter
[MDC 103 Flutter: Material Theming with Color, Shape, Elevation, and Type]: {{site.codelabs}}/codelabs/mdc-103-flutter
[MDC 104 Flutter: Material Advanced Components]: {{site.codelabs}}/codelabs/mdc-104-flutter

## Using Flutter with...

Learn how to use Flutter with other technologies.

* [Adding Google Maps to a Flutter app][]<br>
  Display a Google map in an app, retrieve data from a
  web service, and display the data as markers on the map.

* [Build a photo sharing app with Google Photos and Flutter][]<br>
  Build a field trip app that allows you and other
  members of the trip to share photos.

* [Adding AdMob Ads to a Flutter app][]<br>
  Learn how to add an AdMob banner, an interstitial ad,
  and a rewarded ad to an app called Awesome Drawing Quiz,
  a game that lets players guess the name of the drawing.

* [Get to know Firebase for Flutter][]<br>
  Build an event RSVP and guestbook chat app on both Android
  and iOS using Flutter, authenticating users with Firebase
  Authentication and sync data using Cloud Firestore.

* [Multi-platform Firestore Flutter][]<br>
  Build a multi-platform restaurant recommendation app
  powered by Flutter and Cloud Firestore.
  The finished app runs on Android, iOS, and web,
  from a single Dart codebase.

[Adding AdMob Ads to a Flutter app]: {{site.codelabs}}/codelabs/admob-ads-in-flutter/
[Adding Google Maps to a Flutter app]: {{site.codelabs}}/codelabs/google-maps-in-flutter
[Build a photo sharing app with Google Photos and Flutter]: {{site.codelabs}}/codelabs/google-photos-sharing
[Get to know Firebase for Flutter]: https://firebase.google.com/learn/codelabs/firebase-get-to-know-flutter
[Multi-platform Firestore Flutter]: {{site.codelabs}}/codelabs/friendlyeats-flutter/

## Testing

Learn how to test your Flutter application.

* [How to test a Flutter app][]<br>
  Start with a simple app that manages state with the Provider package.
  Unit test the provider package. Write widget tests for two of the
  widgets. Use Flutter Driver to create an integration test.

[How to test a Flutter app]: {{site.codelabs}}/codelabs/flutter-app-testing/#0

## Writing platform-specific code

Learn how to write code that's targeted for specific platforms,
like iOS, Android, the web, and the desktop.

* [Building a Cupertino app with Flutter][]<br>
  Build a version of the Shrine shopping app
  (used in the Material Design codelabs) using the
  Cupertino package to create an iOS style look and feel.
  Create multiple tabs and navigate between them.
  Use the [provider][] package to manage state between screens.

* [How to write a Flutter plugin][]<br>
  Learn how to write a plugin by creating a music plugin
  for iOS and Android that processes audio on the host platform.
  Then make an example app that uses your plugin to make a music keyboard.

* [Using a plugin with a Flutter web app][]<br>
  Finish an app that reports the number of stars on a GitHub repository.
  use Dart DevTools to do some simple debugging, and
  Host your app on Firebase and, finally, use a Flutter plugin to
  launch the app and open the hosted privacy policy.

* [Write a Flutter desktop application][]<br>
  Build a Flutter desktop app that accesses GitHub APIs to retrieve your
  repositories, assigned issues, and pull requests. As part of this task,
  create and use plugins to interact with native APIs and desktop applications,
  and use code generation to build type-safe client libraries for GitHub's APIs.

[Building a Cupertino app with Flutter]: {{site.codelabs}}/codelabs/flutter-cupertino
[How to write a Flutter plugin]: {{site.codelabs}}/codelabs/write-flutter-plugin/
[provider]: {{site.pub}}/packages/provider
[Using a plugin with a Flutter web app]: {{site.codelabs}}/codelabs/web-url-launcher/
[Write a Flutter desktop application]: {{site.codelabs}}/codelabs/flutter-github-graphql-client/

## Other resources

For Dart-specific codelabs, see the
[codelabs][] page on the [Dart site][].

We also recommend the following online class:

* [The Complete Flutter Development Bootcamp Using Dart][]

{{site.alert.note}}
  If you have trouble viewing any of the codelabs
  on `codelabs.google.developer.com`, try 
  [this mirror of the Flutter codelabs][].
{{site.alert.end}}

[codelabs]: {{site.dart-site}}/codelabs
[Dart site]: {{site.dart-site}}
[The Complete Flutter Development Bootcamp Using Dart]: https://www.appbrewery.co/p/flutter-development-bootcamp-with-dart
[this mirror of the Flutter codelabs]: https://codelabs.flutter-io.cn/
