src/docs/development/ui/assets-and-images.md, before:

---
title: Adding assets and images
description: How to use images (and other assets) in your Flutter app.
short-title: Assets and images
---

Flutter apps can include both code and _assets_
(sometimes called resources). An asset is a file
that is bundled and deployed with your app,
and is accessible at runtime. Common types of assets include
static data (for example, JSON files),
configuration files, icons, and images
(JPEG, WebP, GIF, animated WebP/GIF, PNG, BMP, and WBMP).

## Specifying assets

Flutter uses the [`pubspec.yaml`][] file,
located at the root of your project,
to identify assets required by an app.

Here is an example:

```yaml
flutter:
  assets:
    - assets/my_icon.png
    - assets/background.png
```

To include all assets under a directory,
specify the directory name with the `/` character at the end:

```yaml
flutter:
  assets:
    - directory/
    - directory/subdirectory/
```

{{site.alert.note}}
  Only files located directly in the directory are
  included. To add files located in subdirectories,
  create an entry per directory.
{{site.alert.end}}

### Asset bundling

The `assets` subsection of the `flutter` section
specifies files that should be included with the app.
Each asset is identified by an explicit path
(relative to the `pubspec.yaml` file) where the asset
file is located. The order in which the assets are
declared doesn't matter. The actual directory name used
(`assets` in first example or `directory` in the above
example) doesn't matter.

During a build, Flutter places assets into a special
archive called the _asset bundle_ that apps read
from at runtime.

### Asset variants

The build process supports the notion of asset variants:
different versions of an asset that might be displayed
in different contexts. When an asset's path is specified
in the `assets` section of `pubspec.yaml`,
the build process looks for any files with the same
name in adjacent subdirectories. Such files are then
included in the asset bundle along with the specified asset.

For example, if you have the following files in
your application directory:

```text
.../pubspec.yaml
.../graphics/my_icon.png
.../graphics/background.png
.../graphics/dark/background.png
...etc.
```

And your `pubspec.yaml` file contains the following:

```yaml
flutter:
  assets:
    - graphics/background.png
```

Then both `graphics/background.png` and `graphics/dark/background.png`
are included in your asset bundle. The former is considered the
_main asset_, while the latter is considered a _variant_.

If, on the other hand, the graphics directory is specified:

```yaml
flutter:
  assets:
    - graphics/
```

Then the `graphics/my_icon.png`, `graphics/background.png`
and `graphics/dark/background.png` files are also included.

Flutter uses asset variants when choosing resolution-appropriate
images. In the future, this mechanism might be extended to
include variants for different locales or regions,
reading directions, and so on.

## Loading assets

Your app can access its assets through an
[`AssetBundle`][] object.

The two main methods on an asset bundle allow you to load a
string/text asset (`loadString()`) or an image/binary asset (`load()`)
out of the bundle, given a logical key. The logical key maps to the path
to the asset specified in the `pubspec.yaml` file at build time.

### Loading text assets

Each Flutter app has a [`rootBundle`][]
object for easy access to the main asset bundle.
It is possible to load assets directly using the
`rootBundle` global static from
`package:flutter/services.dart`.

However, it's recommended to obtain the `AssetBundle`
for the current `BuildContext` using
[`DefaultAssetBundle`][], rather than the default
asset bundle that was built with the app; this
approach enables a parent widget to substitute a
different `AssetBundle` at run time,
which can be useful for localization or testing
scenarios.

Typically, you'll use `DefaultAssetBundle.of()`
to indirectly load an asset, for example a JSON file,
from the app's runtime `rootBundle`.

{% comment %}
  Need example here to show obtaining the AssetBundle for the current
  BuildContext using DefaultAssetBundle.of
{% endcomment %}

Outside of a `Widget` context, or when a handle
to an `AssetBundle` is not available,
you can use `rootBundle` to directly load such assets.
For example:

```dart
import 'dart:async' show Future;
import 'package:flutter/services.dart' show rootBundle;

Future<String> loadAsset() async {
  return await rootBundle.loadString('assets/config.json');
}
```

### Loading images

Flutter can load resolution-appropriate images for
the current device pixel ratio.

#### Declaring resolution-aware image assets {#resolution-aware}

[`AssetImage`][] understands how to map a logical requested
asset onto one that most closely matches the current
[device pixel ratio][].
In order for this mapping to work, assets should be arranged
according to a particular directory structure:

```text
.../image.png
.../Mx/image.png
.../Nx/image.png
...etc.
```

Where _M_ and _N_ are numeric identifiers that correspond
to the nominal resolution of the images contained within.
In other words, they specify the device pixel ratio that
the images are intended for.

The main asset is assumed to correspond to a resolution of 1.0.
For example, consider the following asset layout for an
image named `my_icon.png`:

```text
.../my_icon.png
.../2.0x/my_icon.png
.../3.0x/my_icon.png
```

On devices with a device pixel ratio of 1.8, the asset
`.../2.0x/my_icon.png` is chosen.
For a device pixel ratio of 2.7, the asset
`.../3.0x/my_icon.png` is chosen.

If the width and height of the rendered image are not specified
on the `Image` widget, the nominal resolution is used to scale
the asset so that it occupies the same amount of screen space
as the main asset would have, just with a higher resolution.
That is, if `.../my_icon.png` is 72px by 72px, then
`.../3.0x/my_icon.png` should be 216px by 216px;
but they both render into 72px by 72px (in logical pixels),
if width and height are not specified.

Each entry in the asset section of the `pubspec.yaml`
should correspond to a real file, with the exception of
the main asset entry. If the main asset entry doesn't correspond
to a real file, then the asset with the lowest resolution
is used as the fallback for devices with device pixel
ratios below that resolution. The entry should still
be included in the `pubspec.yaml` manifest, however.

#### Loading images

To load an image, use the [`AssetImage`][]
class in a widget's `build()` method.

For example, your app can load the background
image from the asset declarations above:

```dart
Widget build(BuildContext context) {
  return Image(image: AssetImage('graphics/background.png'));
}
```

Anything using the default asset bundle inherits resolution
awareness when loading images. (If you work with some of the lower
level classes, like [`ImageStream`][] or [`ImageCache`][],
you'll also notice parameters related to scale.)

{{site.alert.note}}
  [Device pixel ratio][] depends on [MediaQueryData.size][] which requires to have either a [MaterialApp][] or [CupertinoApp][] as an ancestor of your [`AssetImage`][].
{{site.alert.end}}

### Asset images in package dependencies {#from-packages}

To load an image from a [package][] dependency,
the `package` argument must be provided to [`AssetImage`][].

For instance, suppose your application depends on a package
called `my_icons`, which has the following directory structure:

```text
.../pubspec.yaml
.../icons/heart.png
.../icons/1.5x/heart.png
.../icons/2.0x/heart.png
...etc.
```

To load the image, use:

<!-- skip -->
```dart
AssetImage('icons/heart.png', package: 'my_icons')
```

Assets used by the package itself should also be fetched
using the `package` argument as above.

#### Bundling of package assets

If the desired asset is specified in the `pubspec.yaml`
file of the package, it's bundled automatically with the
application. In particular, assets used by the package
itself must be specified in its `pubspec.yaml`.

A package can also choose to have assets in its `lib/`
folder that are not specified in its `pubspec.yaml` file.
In this case, for those images to be bundled,
the application has to specify which ones to include in its
`pubspec.yaml`. For instance, a package named `fancy_backgrounds`
could have the following files:

```text
.../lib/backgrounds/background1.png
.../lib/backgrounds/background2.png
.../lib/backgrounds/background3.png
```

To include, say, the first image, the `pubspec.yaml` of the
application should specify it in the `assets` section:

```yaml
flutter:
  assets:
    - packages/fancy_backgrounds/backgrounds/background1.png
```

The `lib/` is implied,
so it should not be included in the asset path.

## Sharing assets with the underlying platform

Flutter assets are readily available to platform code
using the `AssetManager` on Android and `NSBundle` on iOS.

### Loading Flutter assets in Android

On Android the assets are available through the
[`AssetManager`][] API.  The lookup key used in,
for instance [`openFd`][], is obtained from
`lookupKeyForAsset` on [`PluginRegistry.Registrar`][] or
`getLookupKeyForAsset` on [`FlutterView`][].
`PluginRegistry.Registrar` is available when developing a plugin
while `FlutterView` would be the choice when developing an
app including a platform view.

As an example, suppose you have specified the following
in your pubspec.yaml

```yaml
flutter:
  assets:
    - icons/heart.png
```

This reflects the following structure in your Flutter app.

```text
.../pubspec.yaml
.../icons/heart.png
...etc.
```

To access `icons/heart.png` from your Java plugin code,
do the following:

```java
AssetManager assetManager = registrar.context().getAssets();
String key = registrar.lookupKeyForAsset("icons/heart.png");
AssetFileDescriptor fd = assetManager.openFd(key);
```

### Loading Flutter assets in iOS

On iOS the assets are available through the [`mainBundle`][].
The lookup key used in, for instance [`pathForResource:ofType:`][],
is obtained from `lookupKeyForAsset` or `lookupKeyForAsset:fromPackage:`
on [`FlutterPluginRegistrar`][], or `lookupKeyForAsset:` or
`lookupKeyForAsset:fromPackage:` on [`FlutterViewController`][].
`FlutterPluginRegistrar` is available when developing
a plugin while `FlutterViewController` would be the choice
when developing an app including a platform view.

As an example, suppose you have the Flutter setting from above.

To access `icons/heart.png` from your Objective-C plugin code you
would do the following:

```objective-c
NSString* key = [registrar lookupKeyForAsset:@"icons/heart.png"];
NSString* path = [[NSBundle mainBundle] pathForResource:key ofType:nil];
```

For a more complete example, see the implementation of the
Flutter [`video_player` plugin][] on pub.dev.

The [`ios_platform_images`][] plugin on pub.dev wraps
up this logic in a convenient category. You fetch
an image as follows:

**Objective-C:**
```objective-c
[UIImage flutterImageWithName:@"icons/heart.png"];
```

**Swift:**
```swift
UIImage.flutterImageNamed("icons/heart.png")
```

### Loading iOS images in Flutter

When implementing Flutter by
[adding it to an existing iOS app][add-to-app],
you might have images hosted in iOS that you
want to use in Flutter. To accomplish
that, use the [`ios_platform_images`][] plugin
available on pub.dev.

## Platform assets

There are other occasions to work with assets in the
platform projects directly. Below are two common cases
where assets are used before the Flutter framework is
loaded and running.

### Updating the app icon

Updating a Flutter application's launch icon works
the same way as updating launch icons in native
Android or iOS applications.

![Launch icon](/images/assets-and-images/icon.png)

#### Android

In your Flutter project's root directory, navigate to
`.../android/app/src/main/res`. The various bitmap resource
folders such as `mipmap-hdpi` already contain placeholder
images named `ic_launcher.png`. Replace them with your
desired assets respecting the recommended icon size per
screen density as indicated by the [Android Developer Guide][].

![Android icon location](/images/assets-and-images/android-icon-path.png)

{{site.alert.note}}
  If you rename the `.png` files, you must also update the
  corresponding name in your `AndroidManifest.xml`'s
  `<application>` tag's `android:icon` attribute.
{{site.alert.end}}

#### iOS

In your Flutter project's root directory,
navigate to `.../ios/Runner`. The
`Assets.xcassets/AppIcon.appiconset` directory already contains
placeholder images. Replace them with the appropriately
sized images as indicated by their filename as dictated by the
Apple [Human Interface Guidelines][].
Keep the original file names.

![iOS icon location](/images/assets-and-images/ios-icon-path.png)

### Updating the launch screen

<p align="center">
  <img src="/images/assets-and-images/launch-screen.png" alt="Launch screen" />
</p>

Flutter also uses native platform mechanisms to draw
transitional launch screens to your Flutter app while the
Flutter framework loads. This launch screen persists until
Flutter renders the first frame of your application.

{{site.alert.note}}
  This implies that if you don't call [`runApp()`][] in the
  `main()` function of your app (or more specifically,
  if you don't call [`window.render()`][] in response to
  [`window.onDrawFrame`][]),
  the launch screen persists forever.
{{site.alert.end}}

#### Android

To add a "splash screen" to your Flutter application,
navigate to `.../android/app/src/main`.
In `res/drawable/launch_background.xml`,
use this [layer list drawable][] XML to customize
the look of your launch screen. The existing template provides
an example of adding an image to the middle of a white splash
screen in commented code. You can uncomment it or use other
[drawables][] to achieve the intended effect.

For more details, see
[Adding a splash screen to your mobile app][].

#### iOS

To add an image to the center of your "splash screen",
navigate to `.../ios/Runner`.
In `Assets.xcassets/LaunchImage.imageset`,
drop in images named `LaunchImage.png`,
`LaunchImage@2x.png`, `LaunchImage@3x.png`.
If you use different filenames,
update the `Contents.json` file in the same directory.

You can also fully customize your launch screen storyboard
in Xcode by opening `.../ios/Runner.xcworkspace`.
Navigate to `Runner/Runner` in the Project Navigator and
drop in images by opening `Assets.xcassets` or do any
customization using the Interface Builder in
`LaunchScreen.storyboard`.

![Adding launch icons in Xcode](/images/assets-and-images/ios-launchscreen-xcode.png){:width="100%"}

For more details, see
[Adding a splash screen to your mobile app][].


[add-to-app]: /docs/development/add-to-app/ios
[Adding a splash screen to your mobile app]: /docs/development/ui/advanced/splash-screen
[`AssetBundle`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/services/AssetBundle-class.html
[`AssetImage`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/painting/AssetImage-class.html
[`DefaultAssetBundle`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/DefaultAssetBundle-class.html
[`ImageCache`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/painting/ImageCache-class.html
[`ImageStream`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/painting/ImageStream-class.html
[Android Developer Guide]: {{site.android-dev}}/training/multiscreen/screendensities
[`AssetManager`]: {{site.android-dev}}/reference/android/content/res/AssetManager
[device pixel ratio]: {{site.api}}/flutter/dart-ui/Window/devicePixelRatio.html
[drawables]: {{site.android-dev}}/guide/topics/resources/drawable-resource
[`FlutterPluginRegistrar`]: {{site.api}}/objcdoc/Protocols/FlutterPluginRegistrar.html
[`FlutterView`]: {{site.api}}/javadoc/io/flutter/view/FlutterView.html
[`FlutterViewController`]: {{site.api}}/objcdoc/Classes/FlutterViewController.html
[Human Interface Guidelines]: https://developer.apple.com/ios/human-interface-guidelines/graphics/app-icon
[`ios_platform_images`]: {{site.pub}}/packages/ios_platform_images
[layer list drawable]: {{site.android-dev}}/guide/topics/resources/drawable-resource#LayerList
[`mainBundle`]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundation/nsbundle/1410786-mainbundle
[`openFd`]: {{site.android-dev}}/reference/android/content/res/AssetManager#openFd(java.lang.String
[package]: /docs/development/packages-and-plugins/using-packages
[`pathForResource:ofType:`]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundation/nsbundle/1410989-pathforresource
[`PluginRegistry.Registrar`]: {{site.api}}/javadoc/io/flutter/plugin/common/PluginRegistry.Registrar.html
[`pubspec.yaml`]: {{site.dart-site}}/tools/pub/pubspec
[`rootBundle`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/services/rootBundle.html
[`runApp()`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/runApp.html
[`video_player` plugin]: {{site.pub}}/packages/video_player
[`window.onDrawFrame`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/dart-ui/Window/onDrawFrame.html
[`window.render()`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/dart-ui/Window/render.html
[MediaQueryData.size]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/MediaQueryData/size.html
[MaterialApp]: {{site.api}}/flutter/material/MaterialApp-class.html
[CupertinoApp]: {{site.api}}/flutter/cupertino/CupertinoApp-class.html
[Device pixel ratio]: {{site.api}}/flutter/dart-ui/Window/devicePixelRatio.html

Commit message:

docs : Rephrased the alert note. (#4562)
* docs : Rephrased the alert note.

Rephrased the alert note to a more accurate and clear note. This will fix #4528

* Made the alert note compact

* Added link to Asset Varients section.

Added a jump link to Asset Varients inside the alert note.

src/docs/development/ui/assets-and-images.md, after:

---
title: Adding assets and images
description: How to use images (and other assets) in your Flutter app.
short-title: Assets and images
---

Flutter apps can include both code and _assets_
(sometimes called resources). An asset is a file
that is bundled and deployed with your app,
and is accessible at runtime. Common types of assets include
static data (for example, JSON files),
configuration files, icons, and images
(JPEG, WebP, GIF, animated WebP/GIF, PNG, BMP, and WBMP).

## Specifying assets

Flutter uses the [`pubspec.yaml`][] file,
located at the root of your project,
to identify assets required by an app.

Here is an example:

```yaml
flutter:
  assets:
    - assets/my_icon.png
    - assets/background.png
```

To include all assets under a directory,
specify the directory name with the `/` character at the end:

```yaml
flutter:
  assets:
    - directory/
    - directory/subdirectory/
```

{{site.alert.note}}
  Only files located directly in the directory are included unless
  there are files with the same name inside a subdirectory 
  (see [Asset Variants](#asset-variants)). To add files located in subdirectories, create 
  an entry per directory.
{{site.alert.end}}

### Asset bundling

The `assets` subsection of the `flutter` section
specifies files that should be included with the app.
Each asset is identified by an explicit path
(relative to the `pubspec.yaml` file) where the asset
file is located. The order in which the assets are
declared doesn't matter. The actual directory name used
(`assets` in first example or `directory` in the above
example) doesn't matter.

During a build, Flutter places assets into a special
archive called the _asset bundle_ that apps read
from at runtime.

### Asset variants

The build process supports the notion of asset variants:
different versions of an asset that might be displayed
in different contexts. When an asset's path is specified
in the `assets` section of `pubspec.yaml`,
the build process looks for any files with the same
name in adjacent subdirectories. Such files are then
included in the asset bundle along with the specified asset.

For example, if you have the following files in
your application directory:

```text
.../pubspec.yaml
.../graphics/my_icon.png
.../graphics/background.png
.../graphics/dark/background.png
...etc.
```

And your `pubspec.yaml` file contains the following:

```yaml
flutter:
  assets:
    - graphics/background.png
```

Then both `graphics/background.png` and `graphics/dark/background.png`
are included in your asset bundle. The former is considered the
_main asset_, while the latter is considered a _variant_.

If, on the other hand, the graphics directory is specified:

```yaml
flutter:
  assets:
    - graphics/
```

Then the `graphics/my_icon.png`, `graphics/background.png`
and `graphics/dark/background.png` files are also included.

Flutter uses asset variants when choosing resolution-appropriate
images. In the future, this mechanism might be extended to
include variants for different locales or regions,
reading directions, and so on.

## Loading assets

Your app can access its assets through an
[`AssetBundle`][] object.

The two main methods on an asset bundle allow you to load a
string/text asset (`loadString()`) or an image/binary asset (`load()`)
out of the bundle, given a logical key. The logical key maps to the path
to the asset specified in the `pubspec.yaml` file at build time.

### Loading text assets

Each Flutter app has a [`rootBundle`][]
object for easy access to the main asset bundle.
It is possible to load assets directly using the
`rootBundle` global static from
`package:flutter/services.dart`.

However, it's recommended to obtain the `AssetBundle`
for the current `BuildContext` using
[`DefaultAssetBundle`][], rather than the default
asset bundle that was built with the app; this
approach enables a parent widget to substitute a
different `AssetBundle` at run time,
which can be useful for localization or testing
scenarios.

Typically, you'll use `DefaultAssetBundle.of()`
to indirectly load an asset, for example a JSON file,
from the app's runtime `rootBundle`.

{% comment %}
  Need example here to show obtaining the AssetBundle for the current
  BuildContext using DefaultAssetBundle.of
{% endcomment %}

Outside of a `Widget` context, or when a handle
to an `AssetBundle` is not available,
you can use `rootBundle` to directly load such assets.
For example:

```dart
import 'dart:async' show Future;
import 'package:flutter/services.dart' show rootBundle;

Future<String> loadAsset() async {
  return await rootBundle.loadString('assets/config.json');
}
```

### Loading images

Flutter can load resolution-appropriate images for
the current device pixel ratio.

#### Declaring resolution-aware image assets {#resolution-aware}

[`AssetImage`][] understands how to map a logical requested
asset onto one that most closely matches the current
[device pixel ratio][].
In order for this mapping to work, assets should be arranged
according to a particular directory structure:

```text
.../image.png
.../Mx/image.png
.../Nx/image.png
...etc.
```

Where _M_ and _N_ are numeric identifiers that correspond
to the nominal resolution of the images contained within.
In other words, they specify the device pixel ratio that
the images are intended for.

The main asset is assumed to correspond to a resolution of 1.0.
For example, consider the following asset layout for an
image named `my_icon.png`:

```text
.../my_icon.png
.../2.0x/my_icon.png
.../3.0x/my_icon.png
```

On devices with a device pixel ratio of 1.8, the asset
`.../2.0x/my_icon.png` is chosen.
For a device pixel ratio of 2.7, the asset
`.../3.0x/my_icon.png` is chosen.

If the width and height of the rendered image are not specified
on the `Image` widget, the nominal resolution is used to scale
the asset so that it occupies the same amount of screen space
as the main asset would have, just with a higher resolution.
That is, if `.../my_icon.png` is 72px by 72px, then
`.../3.0x/my_icon.png` should be 216px by 216px;
but they both render into 72px by 72px (in logical pixels),
if width and height are not specified.

Each entry in the asset section of the `pubspec.yaml`
should correspond to a real file, with the exception of
the main asset entry. If the main asset entry doesn't correspond
to a real file, then the asset with the lowest resolution
is used as the fallback for devices with device pixel
ratios below that resolution. The entry should still
be included in the `pubspec.yaml` manifest, however.

#### Loading images

To load an image, use the [`AssetImage`][]
class in a widget's `build()` method.

For example, your app can load the background
image from the asset declarations above:

```dart
Widget build(BuildContext context) {
  return Image(image: AssetImage('graphics/background.png'));
}
```

Anything using the default asset bundle inherits resolution
awareness when loading images. (If you work with some of the lower
level classes, like [`ImageStream`][] or [`ImageCache`][],
you'll also notice parameters related to scale.)

{{site.alert.note}}
  [Device pixel ratio][] depends on [MediaQueryData.size][] which requires to have either a [MaterialApp][] or [CupertinoApp][] as an ancestor of your [`AssetImage`][].
{{site.alert.end}}

### Asset images in package dependencies {#from-packages}

To load an image from a [package][] dependency,
the `package` argument must be provided to [`AssetImage`][].

For instance, suppose your application depends on a package
called `my_icons`, which has the following directory structure:

```text
.../pubspec.yaml
.../icons/heart.png
.../icons/1.5x/heart.png
.../icons/2.0x/heart.png
...etc.
```

To load the image, use:

<!-- skip -->
```dart
AssetImage('icons/heart.png', package: 'my_icons')
```

Assets used by the package itself should also be fetched
using the `package` argument as above.

#### Bundling of package assets

If the desired asset is specified in the `pubspec.yaml`
file of the package, it's bundled automatically with the
application. In particular, assets used by the package
itself must be specified in its `pubspec.yaml`.

A package can also choose to have assets in its `lib/`
folder that are not specified in its `pubspec.yaml` file.
In this case, for those images to be bundled,
the application has to specify which ones to include in its
`pubspec.yaml`. For instance, a package named `fancy_backgrounds`
could have the following files:

```text
.../lib/backgrounds/background1.png
.../lib/backgrounds/background2.png
.../lib/backgrounds/background3.png
```

To include, say, the first image, the `pubspec.yaml` of the
application should specify it in the `assets` section:

```yaml
flutter:
  assets:
    - packages/fancy_backgrounds/backgrounds/background1.png
```

The `lib/` is implied,
so it should not be included in the asset path.

## Sharing assets with the underlying platform

Flutter assets are readily available to platform code
using the `AssetManager` on Android and `NSBundle` on iOS.

### Loading Flutter assets in Android

On Android the assets are available through the
[`AssetManager`][] API.  The lookup key used in,
for instance [`openFd`][], is obtained from
`lookupKeyForAsset` on [`PluginRegistry.Registrar`][] or
`getLookupKeyForAsset` on [`FlutterView`][].
`PluginRegistry.Registrar` is available when developing a plugin
while `FlutterView` would be the choice when developing an
app including a platform view.

As an example, suppose you have specified the following
in your pubspec.yaml

```yaml
flutter:
  assets:
    - icons/heart.png
```

This reflects the following structure in your Flutter app.

```text
.../pubspec.yaml
.../icons/heart.png
...etc.
```

To access `icons/heart.png` from your Java plugin code,
do the following:

```java
AssetManager assetManager = registrar.context().getAssets();
String key = registrar.lookupKeyForAsset("icons/heart.png");
AssetFileDescriptor fd = assetManager.openFd(key);
```

### Loading Flutter assets in iOS

On iOS the assets are available through the [`mainBundle`][].
The lookup key used in, for instance [`pathForResource:ofType:`][],
is obtained from `lookupKeyForAsset` or `lookupKeyForAsset:fromPackage:`
on [`FlutterPluginRegistrar`][], or `lookupKeyForAsset:` or
`lookupKeyForAsset:fromPackage:` on [`FlutterViewController`][].
`FlutterPluginRegistrar` is available when developing
a plugin while `FlutterViewController` would be the choice
when developing an app including a platform view.

As an example, suppose you have the Flutter setting from above.

To access `icons/heart.png` from your Objective-C plugin code you
would do the following:

```objective-c
NSString* key = [registrar lookupKeyForAsset:@"icons/heart.png"];
NSString* path = [[NSBundle mainBundle] pathForResource:key ofType:nil];
```

For a more complete example, see the implementation of the
Flutter [`video_player` plugin][] on pub.dev.

The [`ios_platform_images`][] plugin on pub.dev wraps
up this logic in a convenient category. You fetch
an image as follows:

**Objective-C:**
```objective-c
[UIImage flutterImageWithName:@"icons/heart.png"];
```

**Swift:**
```swift
UIImage.flutterImageNamed("icons/heart.png")
```

### Loading iOS images in Flutter

When implementing Flutter by
[adding it to an existing iOS app][add-to-app],
you might have images hosted in iOS that you
want to use in Flutter. To accomplish
that, use the [`ios_platform_images`][] plugin
available on pub.dev.

## Platform assets

There are other occasions to work with assets in the
platform projects directly. Below are two common cases
where assets are used before the Flutter framework is
loaded and running.

### Updating the app icon

Updating a Flutter application's launch icon works
the same way as updating launch icons in native
Android or iOS applications.

![Launch icon](/images/assets-and-images/icon.png)

#### Android

In your Flutter project's root directory, navigate to
`.../android/app/src/main/res`. The various bitmap resource
folders such as `mipmap-hdpi` already contain placeholder
images named `ic_launcher.png`. Replace them with your
desired assets respecting the recommended icon size per
screen density as indicated by the [Android Developer Guide][].

![Android icon location](/images/assets-and-images/android-icon-path.png)

{{site.alert.note}}
  If you rename the `.png` files, you must also update the
  corresponding name in your `AndroidManifest.xml`'s
  `<application>` tag's `android:icon` attribute.
{{site.alert.end}}

#### iOS

In your Flutter project's root directory,
navigate to `.../ios/Runner`. The
`Assets.xcassets/AppIcon.appiconset` directory already contains
placeholder images. Replace them with the appropriately
sized images as indicated by their filename as dictated by the
Apple [Human Interface Guidelines][].
Keep the original file names.

![iOS icon location](/images/assets-and-images/ios-icon-path.png)

### Updating the launch screen

<p align="center">
  <img src="/images/assets-and-images/launch-screen.png" alt="Launch screen" />
</p>

Flutter also uses native platform mechanisms to draw
transitional launch screens to your Flutter app while the
Flutter framework loads. This launch screen persists until
Flutter renders the first frame of your application.

{{site.alert.note}}
  This implies that if you don't call [`runApp()`][] in the
  `main()` function of your app (or more specifically,
  if you don't call [`window.render()`][] in response to
  [`window.onDrawFrame`][]),
  the launch screen persists forever.
{{site.alert.end}}

#### Android

To add a "splash screen" to your Flutter application,
navigate to `.../android/app/src/main`.
In `res/drawable/launch_background.xml`,
use this [layer list drawable][] XML to customize
the look of your launch screen. The existing template provides
an example of adding an image to the middle of a white splash
screen in commented code. You can uncomment it or use other
[drawables][] to achieve the intended effect.

For more details, see
[Adding a splash screen to your mobile app][].

#### iOS

To add an image to the center of your "splash screen",
navigate to `.../ios/Runner`.
In `Assets.xcassets/LaunchImage.imageset`,
drop in images named `LaunchImage.png`,
`LaunchImage@2x.png`, `LaunchImage@3x.png`.
If you use different filenames,
update the `Contents.json` file in the same directory.

You can also fully customize your launch screen storyboard
in Xcode by opening `.../ios/Runner.xcworkspace`.
Navigate to `Runner/Runner` in the Project Navigator and
drop in images by opening `Assets.xcassets` or do any
customization using the Interface Builder in
`LaunchScreen.storyboard`.

![Adding launch icons in Xcode](/images/assets-and-images/ios-launchscreen-xcode.png){:width="100%"}

For more details, see
[Adding a splash screen to your mobile app][].


[add-to-app]: /docs/development/add-to-app/ios
[Adding a splash screen to your mobile app]: /docs/development/ui/advanced/splash-screen
[`AssetBundle`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/services/AssetBundle-class.html
[`AssetImage`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/painting/AssetImage-class.html
[`DefaultAssetBundle`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/DefaultAssetBundle-class.html
[`ImageCache`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/painting/ImageCache-class.html
[`ImageStream`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/painting/ImageStream-class.html
[Android Developer Guide]: {{site.android-dev}}/training/multiscreen/screendensities
[`AssetManager`]: {{site.android-dev}}/reference/android/content/res/AssetManager
[device pixel ratio]: {{site.api}}/flutter/dart-ui/Window/devicePixelRatio.html
[drawables]: {{site.android-dev}}/guide/topics/resources/drawable-resource
[`FlutterPluginRegistrar`]: {{site.api}}/objcdoc/Protocols/FlutterPluginRegistrar.html
[`FlutterView`]: {{site.api}}/javadoc/io/flutter/view/FlutterView.html
[`FlutterViewController`]: {{site.api}}/objcdoc/Classes/FlutterViewController.html
[Human Interface Guidelines]: https://developer.apple.com/ios/human-interface-guidelines/graphics/app-icon
[`ios_platform_images`]: {{site.pub}}/packages/ios_platform_images
[layer list drawable]: {{site.android-dev}}/guide/topics/resources/drawable-resource#LayerList
[`mainBundle`]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundation/nsbundle/1410786-mainbundle
[`openFd`]: {{site.android-dev}}/reference/android/content/res/AssetManager#openFd(java.lang.String
[package]: /docs/development/packages-and-plugins/using-packages
[`pathForResource:ofType:`]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundation/nsbundle/1410989-pathforresource
[`PluginRegistry.Registrar`]: {{site.api}}/javadoc/io/flutter/plugin/common/PluginRegistry.Registrar.html
[`pubspec.yaml`]: {{site.dart-site}}/tools/pub/pubspec
[`rootBundle`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/services/rootBundle.html
[`runApp()`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/runApp.html
[`video_player` plugin]: {{site.pub}}/packages/video_player
[`window.onDrawFrame`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/dart-ui/Window/onDrawFrame.html
[`window.render()`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/dart-ui/Window/render.html
[MediaQueryData.size]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/MediaQueryData/size.html
[MaterialApp]: {{site.api}}/flutter/material/MaterialApp-class.html
[CupertinoApp]: {{site.api}}/flutter/cupertino/CupertinoApp-class.html
[Device pixel ratio]: {{site.api}}/flutter/dart-ui/Window/devicePixelRatio.html
