src/docs/development/platform-integration/ios-app-clip.md, before:

---
title: Adding an iOS App Clip target
description: How to add an iOS 14 App Clip target to your Flutter project.
---

{{site.alert.important}}
  This support is offered experimentally on Flutter version 1.22, may not be
  stable, and may change in the future.
{{site.alert.end}}

This guide describes how to manually add another Flutter-rendering iOS App Clip
target to your existing Flutter project or [add-to-app][] project.

If you are interested in automatically integrating an App Clip into your iOS
app, see feature request [#65451][].

{{site.alert.warning}}
  This is an advanced guide and is best intended for audience with a working
  knowledge of iOS development.
{{site.alert.end}}

{{site.alert.warning}}
  CocoaPods version 1.10.0.beta.1 or higher is required to run Flutter apps with
  plugins.
{{site.alert.end}}

To see a working sample, see the [App Clip sample][] on GitHub.


## Step 1 - Open project

Open your iOS Xcode project, such as `ios/Runner.xcworkspace` for full-Flutter
apps.

## Step 2 - Add an App Clip target

**2.1**

Click on your project in the Project Navigator to show the project settings.

Press `+` at the bottom of the target list to add a new target.

{% include app-figure.md
image="development/platform-integration/ios-app-clip/add-target.png" %}

**2.2**

Select the `App Clip` type for your new target.

{% include app-figure.md
image="development/platform-integration/ios-app-clip/add-app-clip.png" %}

**2.3**

Enter your new target detail in the dialog.

Select `Storyboard` for Interface.

Select `UIKit App Delegate` for Life Cycle.

{% include app-figure.md
image="development/platform-integration/ios-app-clip/app-clip-details.png" %}

**2.4**

In the following dialog, activate the new scheme for the new target.

{% include app-figure.md
image="development/platform-integration/ios-app-clip/activate-scheme.png" %}

## Step 3 - Remove unneeded files

**3.1**

In the Project Navigator, in the newly created App Clip group, delete
everything except `Info.plist` and `<app clip target>.entitlements`.

{{site.alert.tip}}
  For add-to-app users, it's up to the reader to decide how much of this template
  to keep to invoke `FlutterViewController` or `FlutterEngine` APIs from this code
  later.
{{site.alert.end}}

{% include app-figure.md
image="development/platform-integration/ios-app-clip/clean-files.png" %}

Move files to trash.

**3.2**

If you don't use the `SceneDelegate.swift` file, remove the reference to it in
the `Info.plist`.

Open the `Info.plist` file in the App Clip group. Delete the entire
dictionary entry for `Application Scene Manifest`.

{% include app-figure.md
image="development/platform-integration/ios-app-clip/scene-manifest.png" %}

## Step 4 - Share build configurations

This step isn't necessary for add-to-app projects since add-to-app projects
have their custom build configurations and versions.

**4.1**

Back in the project settings, select the project entry now rather than any
targets.

In the `Info` tab, under the `Configurations` expandable group, expand the
`Debug`, `Profile`, and `Release` entries.

For each, select the same value from the drop-down menu for the App Clip
target as the entry selected for the normal app target.

This gives your App Clip target access to Flutter's required build settings.

{% include app-figure.md
image="development/platform-integration/ios-app-clip/configuration.png" %}

**4.2**

In the App Clip group's `Info.plist` file, set:

- `Build version string (short)` to `$(FLUTTER_BUILD_NAME)`
- `Bundle version` to `$(FLUTTER_BUILD_NUMBER)`

## Step 5 - Share code and assets

### Option 1 - Share everything

Assuming the intent is to show the same Flutter UI in the standard app as in
the App Clip, share the same code and assets.

For each of the following: `Main.storyboard`, `Assets.xcassets`,
`LaunchScreen.storyboard`, `GeneratedPluginRegistrant.m`, and
`AppDelegate.swift`, select the file, then in the first tab of the inspector,
also include the App Clip target in the `Target Membership` checkbox group.

{% include app-figure.md
image="development/platform-integration/ios-app-clip/add-target-membership.png"
%}

### Option 2 - Customize Flutter launch for App Clip

In this case, do not delete everything listed in [Step 3](#step-3). Instead,
use the scaffolding and the [iOS add-to-app APIs] to perform a custom launch of
Flutter. For example to show a [custom Flutter route][].

## Step 6 - Add App Clip associated domains

This is a standard step for App Clip development. See the
[official Apple documentation][].

**6.1**

Open the `<app clip target>.entitlements` file. Add an `Associated Domains`
Array type. Add a row to the array with `appclips:<your bundle id>`.

{% include app-figure.md
image="development/platform-integration/ios-app-clip/app-clip-entitlements.png"
%}

**6.2**

The same associated domains entitlement needs to be added to your main app as
well.

Copy the `<app clip target>.entitlements` file from your App Clip group to
your main app group and rename it to the same name as your main target
such as `Runner.entitlements`.

Open the file and delete the `Parent Application Identifiers` entry for the main
app's entitlement file (leave that entry for the App Clip's entitlement file).

{% include app-figure.md
image="development/platform-integration/ios-app-clip/main-app-entitlements.png"
%}

**6.3**

Back in the project settings, select the main app's target, open the
`Build Settings` tab. Set the `Code Signing Entitlements` setting to the
relative path of the second entitlements file created for the main app.

{% include app-figure.md
image="development/platform-integration/ios-app-clip/main-app-entitlements-setting.png"
%}

## Step 7 - Integrate Flutter

These steps are not necessary for add-to-app.

**7.1**

In your App Clip's target's project settings, open the `Build Settings` tab.

For setting `Framework Search Paths`, add 2 entries:

- `$(inherited)`
- `$(PROJECT_DIR)/Flutter`

{% include app-figure.md
image="development/platform-integration/ios-app-clip/app-clip-framework-search.png"
%}

In other words, the same as the main app target's build settings.

**7.2**

Set the `Objective-C Bridging Header` build setting to
`Runner/Runner-Bridging-Header.h`

{% include app-figure.md
image="development/platform-integration/ios-app-clip/bridge-header.png"
%}

In other words, the same as the main app target's build settings.

**7.3**

Now open the `Build Phases` tab. Press the `+` sign and select
`New Run Script Phase`.

{% include app-figure.md
image="development/platform-integration/ios-app-clip/new-build-phase.png"
%}

Drag that new phase to below the `Dependencies` phase.

Expand the new phase and add this line to the script content:

```bash
/bin/sh "$FLUTTER_ROOT/packages/flutter_tools/bin/xcode_backend.sh" build
```

{% include app-figure.md
image="development/platform-integration/ios-app-clip/xcode-backend-build.png"
%}

In other words, the same as the main app target's build phases.

This ensures that your Flutter Dart code is compiled when running the App Clip
target.

**7.4**

Press the `+` sign and select `New Run Script Phase` again. Leave it as the last
phase.

This time, add:

```bash
/bin/sh "$FLUTTER_ROOT/packages/flutter_tools/bin/xcode_backend.sh" embed_and_thin
```

{% include app-figure.md
image="development/platform-integration/ios-app-clip/xcode-backend-embed.png"
%}

In other words, the same as the main app target's build phases.

This ensures that your Flutter app and engine are embedded into the App Clip
bundle.

## Step 8 - Disable Bitcode

In the App Clip target's `Build Settings` tab, set the `Enable Bitcode` setting
to No.

{% include app-figure.md
image="development/platform-integration/ios-app-clip/bitcode.png"
%}

## Step 9 - Integrate plugins

{{site.alert.warning}}
  CocoaPods version 1.10.0.beta.1 or higher is required to run Flutter apps with
  plugins.
{{site.alert.end}}

**9.1**

Open the `Podfile` for your Flutter project or add-to-app host project.

For full-Flutter apps, replace the following section:

```ruby
target 'Runner' do
  use_frameworks!
  use_modular_headers!

  flutter_install_all_ios_pods File.dirname(File.realpath(__FILE__))
end
```

with:

```ruby
use_frameworks!
use_modular_headers!
flutter_install_all_ios_pods File.dirname(File.realpath(__FILE__))

target 'Runner'
target '<name of your App Clip target>'
```

At the top of the file, also uncomment `platform :ios, '9.0'` and set the
version to the lowest of the 2 target's iOS Deployment Target.

For add-to-app, add to:

```ruby
target 'MyApp' do
  install_all_flutter_pods(flutter_application_path)
end
```

with:

```ruby
target 'MyApp' do
  install_all_flutter_pods(flutter_application_path)
end

target '<name of your App Clip target>'
  install_all_flutter_pods(flutter_application_path)
end
```

**9.2**

From the command line, enter your Flutter project directory.

`cd ios`

then

`pod install`.

## Run

You can now run your App Clip target from Xcode by selecting your App Clip
target from the scheme drop-down, selecting an iOS 14 device and pressing run.

{% include app-figure.md
image="development/platform-integration/ios-app-clip/run-select.png"
%}

To test launching an App Clip from the beginning, also consult Apple's doc on
[Testing Your App Clip's Launch Experience][].

## Debugging, hot reload

Unfortunately `flutter attach` cannot auto-discover the Flutter session
in an App Clip due to networking permission restrictions.

In order to debug your App Clip and use functionalities like hot reload, you
must look for the Observatory URI from the console output in Xcode after
running.

{% include app-figure.md
image="development/platform-integration/ios-app-clip/observatory-uri.png"
%}

You must then copy paste it back into the `flutter attach` command to connect.

Such as

`flutter attach --debug-uri <copied URI>`


[add-to-app]: /docs/development/add-to-app
[#65451]: {{site.github}}/flutter/flutter/issues/65451
[official Apple documentation]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/app_clips/creating_an_app_clip_with_xcode#3604097
[iOS add-to-app APIs]: /docs/development/add-to-app/ios/add-flutter-screen
[custom Flutter route]: /docs/development/add-to-app/ios/add-flutter-screen#route
[App Clip sample]: {{site.github}}/flutter/samples/ios_app_clip
[Testing Your App Clip's Launch Experience]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/app_clips/testing_your_app_clip_s_launch_experience

Commit message:

Update iOS App Clip integration doc (#4847)

src/docs/development/platform-integration/ios-app-clip.md, after:

---
title: Adding an iOS App Clip target
description: How to add an iOS 14 App Clip target to your Flutter project.
---

{{site.alert.important}}
  This support is offered experimentally on Flutter version 1.22, may not be
  stable, and may change in the future.
{{site.alert.end}}

This guide describes how to manually add another Flutter-rendering iOS App Clip
target to your existing Flutter project or [add-to-app][] project.

If you are interested in automatically integrating an App Clip into your iOS
app, see feature request [#65451][].

{{site.alert.warning}}
  This is an advanced guide and is best intended for audience with a working
  knowledge of iOS development.
{{site.alert.end}}

{{site.alert.warning}}
  CocoaPods version 1.10.0.beta.1 or higher is required to run Flutter apps with
  plugins.
{{site.alert.end}}

To see a working sample, see the [App Clip sample][] on GitHub.


## Step 1 - Open project

Open your iOS Xcode project, such as `ios/Runner.xcworkspace` for full-Flutter
apps.

## Step 2 - Add an App Clip target

**2.1**

Click on your project in the Project Navigator to show the project settings.

Press `+` at the bottom of the target list to add a new target.

{% include app-figure.md
image="development/platform-integration/ios-app-clip/add-target.png" %}

**2.2**

Select the `App Clip` type for your new target.

{% include app-figure.md
image="development/platform-integration/ios-app-clip/add-app-clip.png" %}

**2.3**

Enter your new target detail in the dialog.

Select `Storyboard` for Interface.

Select `UIKit App Delegate` for Life Cycle.

Select the same language as your original target for Language.

(In other words, don't create a Swift App Clip target for an Objective-C
main target, and vice versa to simplify the setup.)

{% include app-figure.md
image="development/platform-integration/ios-app-clip/app-clip-details.png" %}

**2.4**

In the following dialog, activate the new scheme for the new target.

{% include app-figure.md
image="development/platform-integration/ios-app-clip/activate-scheme.png" %}

## Step 3 - Remove unneeded files

**3.1**

In the Project Navigator, in the newly created App Clip group, delete
everything except `Info.plist` and `<app clip target>.entitlements`.

{{site.alert.tip}}
  For add-to-app users, it's up to the reader to decide how much of this template
  to keep to invoke `FlutterViewController` or `FlutterEngine` APIs from this code
  later.
{{site.alert.end}}

{% include app-figure.md
image="development/platform-integration/ios-app-clip/clean-files.png" %}

Move files to trash.

**3.2**

If you don't use the `SceneDelegate.swift` file, remove the reference to it in
the `Info.plist`.

Open the `Info.plist` file in the App Clip group. Delete the entire
dictionary entry for `Application Scene Manifest`.

{% include app-figure.md
image="development/platform-integration/ios-app-clip/scene-manifest.png" %}

## Step 4 - Share build configurations

This step isn't necessary for add-to-app projects since add-to-app projects
have their custom build configurations and versions.

**4.1**

Back in the project settings, select the project entry now rather than any
targets.

In the `Info` tab, under the `Configurations` expandable group, expand the
`Debug`, `Profile`, and `Release` entries.

For each, select the same value from the drop-down menu for the App Clip
target as the entry selected for the normal app target.

This gives your App Clip target access to Flutter's required build settings.

{% include app-figure.md
image="development/platform-integration/ios-app-clip/configuration.png" %}

**4.2**

In the App Clip group's `Info.plist` file, set:

- `Build version string (short)` to `$(FLUTTER_BUILD_NAME)`
- `Bundle version` to `$(FLUTTER_BUILD_NUMBER)`

## Step 5 - Share code and assets

### Option 1 - Share everything

Assuming the intent is to show the same Flutter UI in the standard app as in
the App Clip, share the same code and assets.

For each of the following: `Main.storyboard`, `Assets.xcassets`,
`LaunchScreen.storyboard`, `GeneratedPluginRegistrant.m`, and
`AppDelegate.swift` (and `Supporting Files/main.m` if using Objective-C),
select the file, then in the first tab of the inspector,
also include the App Clip target in the `Target Membership` checkbox group.

{% include app-figure.md
image="development/platform-integration/ios-app-clip/add-target-membership.png"
%}

### Option 2 - Customize Flutter launch for App Clip

In this case, do not delete everything listed in [Step 3](#step-3). Instead,
use the scaffolding and the [iOS add-to-app APIs] to perform a custom launch of
Flutter. For example to show a [custom Flutter route][].

## Step 6 - Add App Clip associated domains

This is a standard step for App Clip development. See the
[official Apple documentation][].

**6.1**

Open the `<app clip target>.entitlements` file. Add an `Associated Domains`
Array type. Add a row to the array with `appclips:<your bundle id>`.

{% include app-figure.md
image="development/platform-integration/ios-app-clip/app-clip-entitlements.png"
%}

**6.2**

The same associated domains entitlement needs to be added to your main app as
well.

Copy the `<app clip target>.entitlements` file from your App Clip group to
your main app group and rename it to the same name as your main target
such as `Runner.entitlements`.

Open the file and delete the `Parent Application Identifiers` entry for the main
app's entitlement file (leave that entry for the App Clip's entitlement file).

{% include app-figure.md
image="development/platform-integration/ios-app-clip/main-app-entitlements.png"
%}

**6.3**

Back in the project settings, select the main app's target, open the
`Build Settings` tab. Set the `Code Signing Entitlements` setting to the
relative path of the second entitlements file created for the main app.

{% include app-figure.md
image="development/platform-integration/ios-app-clip/main-app-entitlements-setting.png"
%}

## Step 7 - Integrate Flutter

These steps are not necessary for add-to-app.

**7.1**

In your App Clip's target's project settings, open the `Build Settings` tab.

For setting `Framework Search Paths`, add 2 entries:

- `$(inherited)`
- `$(PROJECT_DIR)/Flutter`

In other words, the same as the main app target's build settings.

{% include app-figure.md
image="development/platform-integration/ios-app-clip/app-clip-framework-search.png"
%}

**7.2**

For Swift target, set the `Objective-C Bridging Header` build setting to
`Runner/Runner-Bridging-Header.h`

In other words, the same as the main app target's build settings.

{% include app-figure.md
image="development/platform-integration/ios-app-clip/bridge-header.png"
%}

**7.3**

Now open the `Build Phases` tab. Press the `+` sign and select
`New Run Script Phase`.

{% include app-figure.md
image="development/platform-integration/ios-app-clip/new-build-phase.png"
%}

Drag that new phase to below the `Dependencies` phase.

Expand the new phase and add this line to the script content:

```bash
/bin/sh "$FLUTTER_ROOT/packages/flutter_tools/bin/xcode_backend.sh" build
```

In other words, the same as the main app target's build phases.

{% include app-figure.md
image="development/platform-integration/ios-app-clip/xcode-backend-build.png"
%}

This ensures that your Flutter Dart code is compiled when running the App Clip
target.

**7.4**

Press the `+` sign and select `New Run Script Phase` again. Leave it as the last
phase.

This time, add:

```bash
/bin/sh "$FLUTTER_ROOT/packages/flutter_tools/bin/xcode_backend.sh" embed_and_thin
```

In other words, the same as the main app target's build phases.

{% include app-figure.md
image="development/platform-integration/ios-app-clip/xcode-backend-embed.png"
%}

This ensures that your Flutter app and engine are embedded into the App Clip
bundle.

## Step 8 - Disable Bitcode

In the App Clip target's `Build Settings` tab, set the `Enable Bitcode` setting
to No.

{% include app-figure.md
image="development/platform-integration/ios-app-clip/bitcode.png"
%}

## Step 9 - Integrate plugins

{{site.alert.warning}}
  CocoaPods version 1.10.0.beta.1 or higher is required to run Flutter apps with
  plugins.
{{site.alert.end}}

**9.1**

Open the `Podfile` for your Flutter project or add-to-app host project.

For full-Flutter apps, replace the following section:

```ruby
target 'Runner' do
  use_frameworks!
  use_modular_headers!

  flutter_install_all_ios_pods File.dirname(File.realpath(__FILE__))
end
```

with:

```ruby
use_frameworks!
use_modular_headers!
flutter_install_all_ios_pods File.dirname(File.realpath(__FILE__))

target 'Runner'
target '<name of your App Clip target>'
```

At the top of the file, also uncomment `platform :ios, '9.0'` and set the
version to the lowest of the 2 target's iOS Deployment Target.

For add-to-app, add to:

```ruby
target 'MyApp' do
  install_all_flutter_pods(flutter_application_path)
end
```

with:

```ruby
target 'MyApp' do
  install_all_flutter_pods(flutter_application_path)
end

target '<name of your App Clip target>'
  install_all_flutter_pods(flutter_application_path)
end
```

**9.2**

From the command line, enter your Flutter project directory.

`cd ios`

then

`pod install`.

## Run

You can now run your App Clip target from Xcode by selecting your App Clip
target from the scheme drop-down, selecting an iOS 14 device and pressing run.

{% include app-figure.md
image="development/platform-integration/ios-app-clip/run-select.png"
%}

To test launching an App Clip from the beginning, also consult Apple's doc on
[Testing Your App Clip's Launch Experience][].

## Debugging, hot reload

Unfortunately `flutter attach` cannot auto-discover the Flutter session
in an App Clip due to networking permission restrictions.

In order to debug your App Clip and use functionalities like hot reload, you
must look for the Observatory URI from the console output in Xcode after
running.

{% include app-figure.md
image="development/platform-integration/ios-app-clip/observatory-uri.png"
%}

You must then copy paste it back into the `flutter attach` command to connect.

Such as

`flutter attach --debug-uri <copied URI>`


[add-to-app]: /docs/development/add-to-app
[#65451]: {{site.github}}/flutter/flutter/issues/65451
[official Apple documentation]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/app_clips/creating_an_app_clip_with_xcode#3604097
[iOS add-to-app APIs]: /docs/development/add-to-app/ios/add-flutter-screen
[custom Flutter route]: /docs/development/add-to-app/ios/add-flutter-screen#route
[App Clip sample]: {{site.github}}/flutter/samples/ios_app_clip
[Testing Your App Clip's Launch Experience]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/app_clips/testing_your_app_clip_s_launch_experience
