src/docs/get-started/test-drive/_vscode.md, before:

<div class="tab-pane" id="vscode" role="tabpanel" aria-labelledby="vscode-tab" markdown="1">

## Create the app {#create-app}

{% include_relative _web-app.md  %}

  1. Invoke **View > Command Palette**.
  1. Type "flutter", and select the **Flutter: New Application Project**.
  1. Enter a project name, such as `myapp`, and press **Enter**.
  1. Create or select the parent directory for the new project folder.
  1. Wait for project creation to complete and the `main.dart`
     file to appear.

The above commands create a Flutter project directory called `myapp` that
contains a simple demo app that uses [Material Components][].

{% include_relative _package-name.md  %}

{% include_relative _restart-vscode.md %}

{% include_relative _main-code-note.md  %}

## Run the app

 1. Locate the VS Code status bar (the blue bar at the bottom of the
    window):<br> ![status bar][]{:.mw-100.pt-1.pb-2}
 1. Select a device from the **Device Selector** area.
    For details, see [Quickly switching between Flutter devices][].
    - If no device is available and you want to use a device simulator,
      click **No Devices** and launch a simulator.
    - To setup a real device, follow the device-specific instructions on the
      [Install][] page for your OS.
 1. Invoke **Run > Start Debugging** or press <kbd>F5</kbd>.
 1. Wait for the app to launch &mdash; progress is printed
    in the **Debug Console** view.

{{site.alert.warning}}
  When launching your app from a Mac, if you see
  `ERROR: Could not connect to lockdownd, error code -17`,
  make sure that you have [trusted your computer][].
{{site.alert.end}}

{% capture save_changes -%}
  : invoke **Save All**, or click **Hot Reload**
  {% include_relative _hot-reload-icon.md %}.
{% endcapture %}

{% include_relative _try-hot-reload.md save_changes=save_changes %}
{% include run-profile.md %}

[Install]: /docs/get-started/install
[Material Components]: {{site.material}}/guidelines
[Quickly switching between Flutter devices]: https://dartcode.org/docs/quickly-switching-between-flutter-devices
[status bar]: {% asset tools/vs-code/device_status_bar.png @path %}
[trusted your computer]: /docs/get-started/install/macos#trust

</div>

Commit message:

Updates IOS testdrive docs (#5132)
* fixed missing header boxes

* fix for #2088

* Revert "fixed missing header boxes"

This reverts commit 38dfe1226c6d71c6917a15d4cb7e27d8d1dda09d.

* added guide to open ios simulator

In Test Drive page under VS Code tab, I added guide to  open iOS simulator.

src/docs/get-started/test-drive/_vscode.md, after:

<div class="tab-pane" id="vscode" role="tabpanel" aria-labelledby="vscode-tab" markdown="1">

## Create the app {#create-app}

{% include_relative _web-app.md  %}

  1. Invoke **View > Command Palette**.
  1. Type "flutter", and select the **Flutter: New Application Project**.
  1. Enter a project name, such as `myapp`, and press **Enter**.
  1. Create or select the parent directory for the new project folder.
  1. Wait for project creation to complete and the `main.dart`
     file to appear.

The above commands create a Flutter project directory called `myapp` that
contains a simple demo app that uses [Material Components][].

{% include_relative _package-name.md  %}

{% include_relative _restart-vscode.md %}

{% include_relative _main-code-note.md  %}

## Run the app

 1. Locate the VS Code status bar (the blue bar at the bottom of the
    window):<br> ![status bar][]{:.mw-100.pt-1.pb-2}
 1. Select a device from the **Device Selector** area.
    For details, see [Quickly switching between Flutter devices][].
    - If no device is available and you want to use a device simulator,
      click **No Devices** and launch a simulator.
      
      {{site.alert.warning}}
      You may not see **Start iOS Simulator** option when you click **No Devices** in VS Code. If you are on Mac then you may have to run following command in          terminal to launch a simulator.
      ```
      open -a simulator
      ```
      
      In Android it is not possible to launch iOS simulator.
      {{site.alert.end}}

    - To setup a real device, follow the device-specific instructions on the
      [Install][] page for your OS.
 1. Invoke **Run > Start Debugging** or press <kbd>F5</kbd>.
 1. Wait for the app to launch &mdash; progress is printed
    in the **Debug Console** view.

{{site.alert.warning}}
  When launching your app from a Mac, if you see
  `ERROR: Could not connect to lockdownd, error code -17`,
  make sure that you have [trusted your computer][].
{{site.alert.end}}

{% capture save_changes -%}
  : invoke **Save All**, or click **Hot Reload**
  {% include_relative _hot-reload-icon.md %}.
{% endcapture %}

{% include_relative _try-hot-reload.md save_changes=save_changes %}
{% include run-profile.md %}

[Install]: /docs/get-started/install
[Material Components]: {{site.material}}/guidelines
[Quickly switching between Flutter devices]: https://dartcode.org/docs/quickly-switching-between-flutter-devices
[status bar]: {% asset tools/vs-code/device_status_bar.png @path %}
[trusted your computer]: /docs/get-started/install/macos#trust

</div>
